Trump has a plan to stay in the White House if he loses election, former senator says|https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/donald-trump-2020-us-election-third-term-tim-wirth-white-house-a9600486.html|President Donald Trump is scheming to retain power in the event of an electoral loss in November, according to a former Senator from Colorado.  Tim Wirth published an op-ed in Newsweek where he lays out his theory, apparently inspired in-part by HBO's adaptation of the Philip Roth novel The Plot Against America.  The former Democratic senator begins with an allegation that Mr Trump will attempt to retain power through voter suppression. Mr Wirth alleges there is a strategy to suppress voter turnout by purging voters - especially inner-city voters - from registration rolls and to suppress mail-in voting. He also believes physical polling locations will be limited, especially in urban areas, in an effort to create long lines on Election Day and discourage voting.  Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines  Mr Wirth's allegations that there has been an effort in Republican-led states to remove people from the voter-roll is accurate.  According to data compiled by Mother Jones, between 2016 and 2018, more than 17 million names have been removed from the voter rolls. While names are removed from voter rolls every year due to deaths or citizens leaving the state, the number of voters removed from the rolls since 2016 has significantly increased.  Between 2016 and 2018, states on average removed 7.6 per cent of their voters from the rolls. However, the purge in some states went much further.  Indiana purged the greatest number of voters, removing 22.3 per cent of the state's voters from its rolls. Both Virginia and Wisconsin removed 14 per cent, and Maine, Oklahoma and Massachusetts removed between 11 and 12.1 per cent.  Mr Wirth's theory about Mr Trump trying to retain power following the 2020 US election doesn't end at the ballot box, however. He believes that - should the president lose - he will claim the vote was rigged and rely on a complicated gambit involving emergency powers and the compliance of Republican legislators to stay in the White House.  According to Mr Wirth, should Mr Trump lose in a scenario where challenger Joe Biden beats him by "decent but not overwhelming" margins in the swing states of Arizona, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, Mr Trump will declare that the vote was rigged.  He will supposedly blame mail-in ballots and Chinese election interference for the loss and invoke emergency powers to launch a Justice Department investigation into alleged "election hacking" in the swing states.  Daily coronavirus briefing No hype, just the advice and analysis you need Enter your email address Continue Continue Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid Email already exists. Log in to update your newsletter preferences Register with your social account or click here to log in I would like to receive morning headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Update newsletter preferences  From there, Mr Wirth claims Mr Trump will stall until 14 December, which is the date when states must appoint their US Electoral College electors. Because the swing states are each controlled by Republicans, Mr Wirth believes the state legislatures will refuse to certify their electors until the election hacking investigation is finished.  He then claims the Democrats will challenge the investigation and the challenge to the election, which will eventually be taken to the US Supreme Court. Mr Wirth believes the Supreme Court will rule against the Republicans, but will concede that Mr Trump's emergency powers authorise him to continue his investigation. The Supreme Court will also maintain that should the swing states not be able to certify their selectors by 14 December - for any reason - then the Electoral College will have to meet and vote for the president without the swing states included.  Under Mr Wirth's theory, the Electoral College will then meet without the swing states under investigation, and neither candidate will receive enough votes to secure the presidency. According to Mr Wirth, the contested election would then move to the House of Representatives, where each delegation gets to cast one vote towards the presidency.  Since there are more Republican controlled House delegations than Democratic controlled delegations - 26 Republican to 23 Democrats - the Republicans will be the victors of the vote and Mr Trump will remain in office.  Mr Wirth claims the plot is not far-fetched, and points to Mr Trump's threat to invoke the Insurrection Act of 1807 to use the US military against demonstrators at the George Floyd protests, but notes later on that the "recent resistance of our military establishment is an encouraging sign and necessary component of the 'people's firewall'".
Why June Was Such a Terrible Month for Trump|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/politics/trump-2020-campaign-problems.html|WASHINGTON — Last Saturday night, over dinner at the White House, Bernard Marcus, a top Republican donor, told President Trump he was alarmed at Mr. Trump’s plummeting poll numbers and Jared Kushner’s stewardship of his father-in-law’s re-election effort.  Mr. Trump sought to assuage Mr. Marcus’s concerns, assuring the billionaire Home Depot founder that his political fortunes would soon change in part because he was bringing in “good people” to steady his campaign, according to a person briefed on their conversation.  The next morning, before setting off for a round of golf, the president tweeted a video from a Florida retirement community that featured a Trump supporter yelling, “white power,” setting Mr. Trump’s aides on a scramble to reach him on the course and have him delete the message.  As Mr. Trump heads to Mount Rushmore on Friday to spend the Independence Day holiday in the carved presence of presidential greatness, he is suffering through the most trying stretch of his administration thanks in large part to his self-inflicted wounds. June represented the political nadir of his three and a half years in the Oval Office, when a race in which he had been steadily trailing, but faring respectably, broke open and left him facing the possibility of not just defeat but humiliation this fall.
The political theater of Kayleigh McEnany’s scripted walk-offs|https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/media/the-political-theater-of-kayleigh-mcenanys-scripted-walk-offs/2020/07/02/a9b7d09a-ba41-11ea-bdaf-a129f921026f_story.html|McEnany was ready for this one.  Quickly flipping pages in her briefing binder, McEnany launched into an extended critique of the New York Times, which broke the Russia story last week. Reading from her notes, she rattled off a series of alleged errors published by the Times in its reporting about Russia over the past four years, including a claim that 17 intelligence agencies had agreed about Russian interference in the 2016 election. (Only four agencies had done so.)  AD  AD  Then she unleashed the uppercut punch: “It is inexcusable, the failed Russia reporting of the New York Times. And I think it’s time that the New York Times, and also The Washington Post, hand back their Pulitzers.”  Bam!  And with that, McEnany snapped her binder shut and strode out of the briefing room, trailed by the unanswered shouts and murmurs of the White House press corps.  Such dramatic exits have become a signature of McEnany’s brief tenure as press secretary. Since taking the job in April, the former Trump-friendly CNN pundit and spokeswoman for Trump’s reelection campaign has often waited until the briefing’s conclusion — that is, the moment when she determines the briefing is concluded — to unload on the assembled reporters.  AD  The excoriation is typically punctuated by a binder slam and a determined stride away from the lectern, almost like the slugger who doesn’t bother to watch the pitch he just swatted as it sails into the bleacher seats. The unspoken message seems to be: Take that, hacks!  AD  McEnany, for example, concluded her briefing on June 1 by playing a White House-produced video of police embracing protesters, images that she said “have not been played all that often” in the news media.  And when she was asked in early May if she wanted to take back her assertion in a Fox Business Network interview in February that “we will not see diseases like the coronavirus come here,” McEnany responded by rhetorically asking if news organizations would like to take back articles that had downplayed the threat. After rattling off several of them, she delivered her exit line: “I’ll leave you with those questions and maybe you’ll have some answers in a few days.”  During another very special McEnany moment in May, the press secretary closed things out by narrating an illustrated PowerPoint presentation of five questions she said reporters should pose to Obama administration officials in support of Trump’s claims of a conspiracy against him.  AD  AD  “If I write them out in a slide format — maybe we’re visual learners and you guys will follow up with journalistic curiosity,” she said sarcastically in introducing her lecture. Sounding like a teacher handing out an assignment, she concluded: “It’s a long weekend. You guys have three days to follow up on those questions. And I certainly hope the next time I ask, some hands go up, because Obama’s spokesperson should be asked those questions because President Trump’s spokespeople certainly would be.”  And . . . scene.  The would-be smackdowns seemed so orchestrated that all it lacked in stagecraft was the kind of musical punctuation that “CSI: Miami” used to punch up Detective Horatio Caine’s bon mots before jumping to the opening credits and theme song, the Who’s “Won’t Get Fooled Again.”  AD  As a practical matter, McEnany’s abrupt exits have the advantage of foreclosing upon follow-up questions or comments. They give her, in effect, the last word. They’re also in keeping with her boss’s perpetual denunciations of the media as “fake news.”  AD  McEnany didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Her mic-dropping moments are really designed for two audiences beyond the denizens of the briefing room: Trump himself and the universe of Trump-friendly websites, said Ryan Lizza, Politico’s chief Washington correspondent and a CNN contributor. The websites, he said, turn her set pieces into share-worthy clips “for the MAGA-sphere” within minutes of her walkout.  AD  “We used to have this quaint idea that the press secretary wasn’t just a mouthpiece for the president, that half of the job was serving the press and the public,” said Lizza, who appeared with McEnany on CNN many times when she was a network contributor. “That model is gone now. Now it’s almost pure theater, and [she’s serving] the negative partisanship that drives all else.”  Social scientists study the way in which people end interactions with others, known as “leave-taking behavior,” and McEnany’s behavior fits into this analytical framework, said Jennifer Mercieca, an associate professor at Texas A&M who specializes in rhetoric and public affairs.  AD  In friendly or cordial relationships, she said, a person typically will begin to position themselves toward an exit and announce their intention to depart. They’ll reaffirm the relationship by summarizing what’s been said and suggest, if only in vague terms, a future meeting.  AD  The failure to do these things sends the opposite message about a relationship — that one party has disrespect for the other.  McEnany’s scripted walk-offs point to “how adversarial the relationship between the press secretary and the press is at present,” said Mercieca. “The abrupt ending signals a lack of respect for the press, especially after she has berated their reporting.”
The fragile world of Donald J. Trump|https://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/ny-oped-the-fragile-world-of-donald-j-trump-20200703-5noudddl35ct7midhsr3c33vzi-story.html|For many of Trump’s supporters, the economy was the killer app. For suburban voters in the classes generally insulated from economic shocks, the rising stock market, juiced by the Federal Reserve, gave Trump a simple, salable metric. It was the one thing even his followers who felt a sense of discomfort about his behavior could point to and feel comforted (well, maybe judges). Trump himself understood it quite well, which is why he wanted to rush to reopen the economy to get the one signifier he cared about perking up in the right direction.
Opinion | Trump’s Re-election Message Is White Grievance|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/opinion/trump-racism-2020-election.html|Now Trump’s poll numbers are cratering, we have double-digit unemployment and our pandemic-ravaged nation has been rendered an international pariah. America is faring exactly as well under Trump’s leadership as his casinos, airline and scam university did. It’s not surprising that he’s returning to what he knows, and what seemed to work for him before.  In fact, Trump appears to think his problem is that he hasn’t been racist enough. On Wednesday, Axios’s Jonathan Swan reported that Trump regrets listening to his son-in-law Jared Kushner’s “woke” ideas — as a source put it — including on criminal justice reform. Instead, he wants to double down on law and order. “He truly believes there is a silent majority out there that’s going to come out in droves in November,” a source told Swan.  And so last week, as if to prod that silent majority, Trump tweeted out videos of Black people assaulting white people. (“Where are the protesters?” he asked.) He has made a point of calling the coronavirus the “kung flu.” At a time when even Mississippi is removing Confederate imagery from its state flag, Trump has thrown himself into the protection of what he calls “our heritage.”  He signed an executive order directing federal law enforcement to prosecute people who damage federal monuments — threatening them with up to 10 years in prison — and withholding funds from municipalities that don’t protect statues. (Whether this latter provision is enforceable is unclear.) He said he’d veto a $741 billion defense bill over a provision, written by Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, requiring that military bases honoring Confederates be renamed. Apoplectic over New York City’s plans to paint the words “Black Lives Matter” on Fifth Avenue in front of Trump Tower, he called the slogan “a symbol of hate.”  On Tuesday, Trump tweeted that he was considering scrapping an Obama-era housing regulation that required localities to address illegal patterns of residential segregation. He claimed that the initiative, which his administration had already put in limbo, was having a “devastating impact on these once thriving Suburban areas.”  The message to his white supporters seemed clear enough: Trump is going to fight to stop people of color from coming to your neighborhood.  The Times reported on the president’s rationale: “Mr. Trump and his campaign team, already concerned about his weakness in battleground states, have become increasingly alarmed by internal polling showing a softening of support among suburban voters.” Trump sees clearly — more clearly than most of his party — that racism is the main thing he has to offer.
Trump in ‘fragile’ mood and may drop out of 2020 race if poll numbers don’t improve, GOP insiders tell Fox News|https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-election/trump-2020-us-election-drop-out-fox-news-republican-a9592036.html|Donald Trump may drop out of the 2020 presidential race if he believes he has no chance of winning, a Republican Party operative reportedly told Fox News.  The claim comes in a report in the president’s favourite news outlet that cites a number of GOP insiders who are concerned about Mr Trump’s re-election prospects amid abysmal polling numbers.  Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, currently holds an average lead of nine points over the incumbent, according to a tracker of 2020 polls by RealClearPolitics.  Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines  Crucially, Mr Trump has lost support from older white voters — typically a bedrock of support for the Republican Party and a group that was crucial to his narrow 2016 victory. Mr Trump is also trailing the former vice president in almost all the swing states.  “It’s too early, but if the polls continue to worsen, you can see a scenario where he drops out,” one anonymous GOP operative told Fox News.  Charles Gasparino, the author of the Fox News report, said in a series of tweets that he had spoken to “major players” in the Republican party for the story. One of them described Mr Trump’s mood as “fragile” as his chances of a second-term looked increasingly dim.  Another of the GOP sources cited in the report said of the likelihood that Mr Trump will drop out: “I’ve heard the talk but I doubt it’s true. My bet is, he drops if he believes there’s no way to win.”  Mr Trump has repeatedly hit out at polling that shows him far behind Mr Biden. Last month, he tweeted that Fox News “should fire their Fake Pollster. Never had a good Fox Poll!”  On Monday, he tweeted: "Sorry to inform the Do Nothing Democrats, but I am getting VERY GOOD internal Polling Numbers. Just like 2016, the @nytimes Polls are Fake! The @FoxNews Polls are a JOKE! Do you think they will apologize to me & their subscribers AGAIN when I WIN? People want LAW, ORDER & SAFETY!"  But polls from all polling organisations show Mr Trump consistently behind by similar margins. In particular, they have shown high levels of disapproval over the president’s handling of the coronavirus and mass protests calling for racial justice after the police killing of George Floyd.  Daily coronavirus briefing No hype, just the advice and analysis you need Enter your email address Continue Continue Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid Email already exists. Log in to update your newsletter preferences Register with your social account or click here to log in I would like to receive morning headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Update newsletter preferences  A recent Washington Post-Ipsos poll found that 36 per cent of American adults approve of Trump’s handling of the protests, while 62 percent disapprove. A New York Times poll returned similar numbers.  The same New York Times-Siena College poll found 58 per cent of Americans disapprove of his handling of the coronavirus outbreak, while only 38 percent approve — the worst ratings since the crisis began.  The Trump campaign called reports that the president would consider dropping out “the granddaddy of fake news”.  “Everyone knows that media polling has always been wrong about President Trump –­ they undersample Republicans and don’t screen for likely voters –­ in order to set false narratives,” Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh told Fox News.  “It won’t work. There was similar fretting in 2016 and if it had been accurate, Hillary Clinton would be in the White House right now.”
Michael Dukakis warns Biden to ignore the polls: 'No guarantee of success'|https://www.foxnews.com/politics/michael-dukakis-warning-joe-biden-election-polls|Michael Dukakis, the former Democratic Massachusetts governor who lost his 1988 White House bid to then-Vice President George H. W. Bush, is warning Joe Biden not to take polls showing him with a double-digit lead over President Trump too seriously.  A recent Fox News poll has Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, leading Trump 50-38 nationally as concerns grow over the coronavirus pandemic, racism and unemployment. He also leads Trump by 8.8 percentage points in an average of the latest national polls compiled by Real Clear Politics.  By comparison, in late July 1988, a Newsweek/Gallup poll showed Dukakis with a 55-38 lead over Bush, according to The Boston Globe.  THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL RACE: THE LATEST POLLS FROM FOX NEWS  "Particularly this year, [polls] should be studied cautiously," Dukakis told the Globe. "Biden can and should win, but being at 50, no matter how weak your opponent is, is no guarantee of success.”  Dukakis' numbers took a nosedive following a series of public relations gaffes, as well as what was regarded as a dispassionate performance in the second debate between himself and Bush. At one point, CNN anchor Bernard Shaw asked Dukakis if he would support the death penalty if his wife were raped and murdered.  Dukakis said "no," citing his belief that capital punishment isn't a deterrent to crime. Many saw his answer as cold.  “It was a question about Dukakis’s values and emotions,” his campaign director, Susan Estrich, later recalled, according to Politico. “When he answered by talking policy, I knew we lost the election.”  Dukakis' numbers further declined following a Bush campaign attack ad that featured Willie Horton, a black man who raped and killed a white woman and stabbed her fiance in a 1987 home invasion in Maryland. Horton had escaped from a weekend furlough at a Massachusetts prison when the killing occurred.  The furlough program had been in place while Dukakis was governor.  TRUMP CAMPAIGN MANAGER TOUTS PRESIDENT TOPPING BIDEN WHERE IT COUNTS  The ad portrayed him as soft on crime and was widely condemned as stoking racial divisions.  Ronald Reagan, the incumbent president at the time, also referred to Dukakis as an "invalid," prompting questions over the governor's mental state. Reagan later claimed he was joking.  “I think I dropped eight points in the week Reagan called me ‘the invalid,’” Dukakis told the Globe in an email. “I never took those early polls seriously.”  In a similar manner, Trump and his supporters have frequently questioned Biden's mental acuity. He did the same with Hillary Clinton in 2016, calling her "unhinged" and suggesting she was not up for the job of being president.  "I think Biden now is weaker than Dukakis in 1988," Globe columnist Alex Beam wrote. "Biden is battling an incumbent president who can wield the levers of power to his own benefit almost any time he wants. And Biden, you can argue, is no Dukakis."  Beam noted that Dukakis had turned 55 days before Election Day in 1988, while Biden is 77 and prone to "cringe-worthy gaffes." Dukakis also presided as governor of Massachusetts over a sustained period of economic growth, he said.  "What can Biden take credit for?" Beam said. "A serviceable stint as a small-state senator, eight years of unremarkable vice-presidential yeomanry, and — lest we forget — an unblemished losing record in presidential campaigns."  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP  Meanwhile, longtime Republican strategist Karl Rove, who informally advises the Trump campaign, told Fox News Friday the Trump needs to hit the reset button ahead of the Republican National Convention.  He also cited Bush's win over Dukakis after trailing in the polls months before his election.  "When you are in the barrel, when you’re getting a lot of bad press and the polls are going against you, you need to do something that says, ‘We’re moving in a different direction.’ That’s what I mean by a reset," he said on "America's Newsroom."
2020’s still up in the air, but there’s already buzz about the 2024 GOP presidential field|https://www.foxnews.com/politics/2024-republican-election-presidential-candidate-buzz|Whether President Trump wins or loses reelection in November, there will likely be a wide open race for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination.  But when that GOP battle begins in earnest – and how the field of contenders shapes up – will depend on the results of the 2020 presidential election.  THE LATEST FROM FOX NEWS ON THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION  If the president wins a second term in the White House, the surge of Republicans hoping to succeed him will likely wait until after the 2022 midterm elections. But if Trump loses in November, longtime Republican consultant Dave Carney says “it’s easier for more people to run and it will be a free-for-all right away.”  Carney, a veteran of numerous presidential campaigns, also emphasized that “there will be different grouping” of contenders depending on whether Trump wins or is defeated in November.  Also likely having an impact if the president loses this year is the margin of his defeat — and how active Trump would stay in the public eye and within the GOP.  The 2024 race will be more than just a contest for the nomination: it will be also a battle to shape the GOP going forward.  Veteran Republican strategist Colin Reed noted that “whenever the Trump era comes to an end, whether that’s next year or five years from now, the GOP will go through a period of discussion and debate about the future direction of the party.”  Will Republican primary voters crave a housecleaning, or will they seek more of the same?  THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL RACE: THE LATEST POLLING FROM FOX NEWS  One thing’s for sure — the jockeying has already begun.  While the names will change over the coming years, here’s a list (in no particular order) of some likely and potential contenders for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination that are currently on the minds of GOP strategists who spoke with Fox News.  Vice President Mike Pence – The former Indiana governor and congressman has something that no other likely or potential contender can match: the title of vice president.  Nikki Haley – There’s been tons of speculation regarding the former South Carolina governor who served as Trump’s ambassador to the United Nations.  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo – The former congressman from Kansas who served as Trump’s CIA director before becoming American’s top diplomat has been quietly reaching out to conservative leaders and donors.  Gov. Ron DeSantis – The first-term conservative and populist Florida governor is a strong ally and supporter of the president, who’s earned Trump’s praises.  Sen. Tom Cotton – The Iraq War veteran who served a term as a congressman from Arkansas before winning election to the Senate in 2014 recently grabbed headlines and won applause from conservatives for targeting China over the coronavirus and for a recent controversial opinion piece for The New York Times.  Sen. Rick Scott – The multimillionaire former two-term Florida governor who was elected to the Senate in 2018 went up with ads in Iowa during the caucuses earlier this year that trashed the impeachment of Trump and slammed former Vice President Joe Biden.  Sen. Josh Hawley – The former Missouri attorney general – who at age 40 is the youngest member of the Senate – is seen by some as a rising star after wowing conservative pundits with his speeches and the legislation he’s pushed during his tenure so far on Capitol Hill.  Sen. Ted Cruz – The conservative firebrand from Texas – who was the runner-up to Trump in the 2016 nomination battle – is regarded as a very likely 2024 contender.  Sen. Marco Rubio – Florida’s senior senator – who also made a bid for the 2016 nomination – has publicly stated that he’s potentially interested in running for president again.  Gov. Larry Hogan – The two-term Republican governor of the blue state of Maryland definitely did not rule out a 2024 White House bid when paying a visit to the first-in-the-nation presidential primary state of New Hampshire last year. The more moderate Hogan would likely run in the mold of a John McCain or Mitt Romney Republican.  John Kasich – The former congressman, two-term Ohio governor, and 2016 GOP presidential candidate who’s a vocal Trump critic flirted with a 2020 primary challenge against the president. He told Fox News last November that a 2024 run remained a “possibility.”  Donald Trump Jr. – Could the president’s oldest son be his heir apparent? While that remains to be seen, he’s a partisan warrior who’s been a tireless rock star on the campaign trail for his father and for down-ballot conservatives.  President Trump – Donald Jr. may have to wait. If the president loses reelection in November, there’s nothing stopping him from running again in 2024. President Grover Cleveland pulled off the feat in 1892 after losing his reelection bid four years earlier. While Presidents Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush quickly lost clout within their parties after suffering reelection defeats, it’s unlikely Trump would suffer the same fate, unless he lost in an overwhelming landslide.  Others to keep your eyes on: Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker, Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts, Sen. Ben Sasse of Nebraska, Reps. Dan Crenshaw and Will Hurd of Texas, Rep. Matt Gaetz of Florida, Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the House Republican Conference chair, and Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York.
Can Republicans handle the aftermath of Donald Trump?|https://thehill.com/opinion/white-house/505820-can-republicans-handle-the-aftermath-of-donald-trump|In the wake of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and the financial crisis, President Bush was broadly unpopular. American troops were coming home in body bags with no end in sight and no way to measure victory. American citizens were called refugees in their own country and dying from the failed White House response to a disaster. The economy was about to collapse as a result of insufficient Wall Street oversight.  Heading into the 2008 election, Republicans were not just worried over losing the White House, they were worried about being completely run out of Washington. After suffering historic losses in the midterms, there was a common question asked among reporters and politicos inside the Beltway. How can Republicans stop the hemorrhaging? The answer was they could not. Democrats took additional seats in the House, won the Senate, and recaptured the White House with Barack Obama.  Heading into the 2020 election, Republicans find themselves in a similar conundrum. American troops are dying from the conflict in Afghanistan. American citizens are losing their lives thanks to the failed White House response to the coronavirus crisis. The economy is left in shambles with severe unemployment and an uncertain road ahead to recovery.  ADVERTISEMENT  Before even adding external factors like the protests around the country, Republicans have to deal with such a historic drag at the top of the party ticket. Reporters and politicos are once again asking the same question. How can Republicans stop the hemorrhaging? The answer is to run away from the incumbent. But that will not work this time since Republicans in Congress have inextricably bound themselves with Donald Trump Donald John TrumpIvanka Trump pitches Goya Foods products on Twitter Sessions defends recusal: 'I leave elected office with my integrity intact' Former White House physician Ronny Jackson wins Texas runoff MORE.  For almost four years, the president has humiliated his detractors. He has forced them out of the party and sends a strong message to Republicans showing any semblance of independence. Trump came into the party like the corporate raiders of the 1980s with a hostile takeover. He has remade the party into his own image. He has employed his sycophants, destroyed anyone with the ounce of political courage to stand up to his abuses, and empowered those who pledged allegiance to him and him alone.  If Republicans run from Trump in their primaries, he has proven over and over that he will risk sinking their races to settle the score. If Republicans refuse to protect him and defend his outbursts, it can be devastating for their political careers. This means the only option for many in the party is to stick with him no matter what and to suffer the consequences.  The philosophy of Trump revolves around political fireworks and personal interests. With the prospects of Republicans tied to his odds and, without a foil as polarizing as Hillary Clinton, it becomes that much more difficult for the president to use the same tactics that worked in the 2016 election. Joe Biden Joe BidenBiden campaign slams Trump's Rose Garden event as 'sad affair' New shutdowns add to Trump woes CNN cuts away from Trump's 'campaign-type' Rose Garden speech MORE is trusted and liked by voters on both sides of the aisle. Biden is shielded from much of the Trump playbook as an older white man.  Biden has a critical advantage. Trump did not win because people wanted him to be president. Trump won because they never wanted Clinton to be president. That luck of the draw will not work this time around. Trump will not get the same benefit of the doubt from voters due to his actions. How can Republicans stop the hemorrhaging? The answer is they cannot.  Republicans created Trump and enabled him to ruin the party they love. All they can do is hope and pray that he does not torch their entire party and take his base with him on his way out of Washington. As Trump goes, so do Republicans, and it looks like they are going down in flames.  Michael Starr Hopkins is the founder of Northern Starr Strategies and the host of “The Starr Report” podcast. Follow his updates @TheOnlyHonest.
Things do not look good for Trump 2020 right now|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/28/politics/us-election-2020-week-ahead/index.html|(CNN) With just 128 days to go, Election Day will be here before you know it. Chris is off this weekend, so I'm filling in to deliver the 5 BIG storylines you need to know to understand the upcoming week on the campaign trail. And they're ranked -- so the No. 1 story is the most important of the coming week.  Tell your friends to subscribe to The Point newsletter here  5. Trump and Pence on the move  The Tulsa rally didn't go according to plan, and there are no official in-person events on the campaign's calendar this week. But President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are still getting out of Washington.  Over the next week, Pence is traveling Arizona and Florida (plus Sunday's visit in Texas). They're technically stops made in Pence's function as VP, so he can " get a ground report " of three states reeling most from the pandemic right now. There are signs things are being scaled back (because, y'know, the pandemic): Pence's adjacent campaign events in Arizona and Florida have now been canceled  Bonus: Trump gets his fireworks  4. Russia is back  A bombshell report from The New York Times -- that Russians had tried to bribe Taliban fighters to kill US troops -- has brought Russia roaring back into the political conversation.  US intelligence concluded months ago that Russian military intelligence offered the bounties amid peace talks. Trump was briefed on the intelligence findings and the White House's National Security Council held a meeting about it in late March, according to the Times, citing officials briefed on the matter.  Trump denies ever being briefed about it, but there's already pushback on both sides of the aisle. Third-ranking House Republican Liz Cheney is demanding answers from the White House, while Democrats say this fits Trump's pattern of behavior with Russia.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Sunday that Congress is seeking a report on the situation and that the "Gang of Eight" top intelligence lawmakers on Capitol Hill were not briefed about it.  Consider what Joe Biden tweeted on Sunday afternoon: "Donald Trump's entire presidency has been a gift to Putin, but this is beyond the pale."  3. Coronavirus is still here  With rising coronavirus cases in nearly every state, the pandemic's grip is tightening. And without a vaccine, the nation's resources to combat it is limited to two tried-and-true things: Mask-wearing and social distancing.  Biden, last week, said he would require masks by law , and has criticized Trump's handling of the pandemic.  "He hasn't done any of what needs to be done," Biden said during a Saturday night virtual fundraiser. "And now he's sending even more people back to work without a plan to safely reopen, hanging the open sign in the economy, crossing his fingers and telling his staff to slow down testing."  Pelosi also doubled down on mask-wearing (and Trump's reluctance to be seen wearing one) on Sunday, calling a federal mask mandate " long overdue ."  Trump and Pence have consistently punted mask regulations to cities and states, rather than issue a federal mandate. On Sunday in Texas, Pence encouraged Americans to wear masks, but again deferred to local ordinances on mask requirements.  Trump has long been reluctant to wear a mask in public even as efforts to protect the President's health ramp up . But don't hold your breath on Trump changing course ... even if other Republicans say "it would help" if he wore a mask.  2. Another health care election?  President Trump's administration is forging ahead with its efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act -- a move that would take away health care for Americans in the middle of a pandemic.  The Republican-led battle against the ACA is a decade old, but even more Americans are turning to the health care option amid job losses and the coronavirus. New federal data shows nearly half a million Americans turned to the federal Obamacare exchanges after losing health insurance coverage this year.  President Trump is digging in, tweeting on Saturday that "Obamacare is a joke," and "I will ALWAYS PROTECT PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS, ALWAYS, ALWAYS,ALWAYS!!!"  As a result, health care is again proving to be a central fight of the presidential race. Priorities USA Action, a major Democratic super PAC supporting Biden, is already airing a television ad in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan arguing that Trump is "failing on health care" by highlighting both the impact of the pandemic and the administration's effort to nullify the ACA.  1. Things look really bad right now for Trump  Right now, nearly every poll paints the same picture for Trump -- If voters headed to the polls today, he'd lose. Significantly. Like, landslide loss  Biden is leading nationally and essentially every swing state that matters.  And consider the backdrop: The economy is down, the pandemic is raging, many Americans are being confronted by just how insidious and deep the racism that exists in this country truly is.
Trump Uses Mount Rushmore Speech to Deliver Divisive Culture War Message|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/03/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-mount-rushmore.html|michael barbaro  From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: In a major speech at Mount Rushmore, President Trump said that the goal of nationwide protests is not, quote, “a better America.” Their goal, he said, is the end of America. Maggie Haberman on what that speech reveals about the president’s re-election campaign. It’s Tuesday July 7. Maggie, heading into this July 4 weekend, what was our understanding of what this Mount Rushmore speech from President Trump, what it was for, what it was intended to do?  maggie haberman  So Michael, the month of June was pretty calamitous for President Trump politically and in terms of his legacy. It began with the federal government having protesters forcibly cleared using chemical irritants from Lafayette Park across from the White House, so that the president could then take a photo op. To mass protests across the country. To a huge spike in coronavirus cases in areas of the country where it really had not been that prevalent, and where the governors in those states were looking toward reopening. So the president tried for a reboot of his campaign with a rally in Tulsa on June 20. That rally was sparsely attended compared to what they had advertised as their likely attendance. And so Mount Rushmore and this event was supposed to be the reboot of the failed reboot. This was going to be an effort by the president to show he was in charge and trying to look toward the general election.  michael barbaro  And from your reporting, what was this reboot of the reboot going to look like in a speech?  maggie haberman  So the president needs an enemy to fight against. In 2018 during the midterms, you saw the president try to galvanize support against a looming threat, as he put it, of a caravan that was headed across the southern border with Mexico. And this was basically a threat of a foreign invasion. And he talked about this a lot and he tweeted about it a lot. And the main enemy that the U.S. is dealing with right now is the coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly. That’s an issue on which his polling is pretty bad. And his advisers know it. And another force that the country is dealing with right now is police brutality. Neither of those are issues that Donald Trump is seen as particularly strong on, or areas where he has shown he wants to lead. So instead, looking for this enemy, aides described in his speech he was going to go after a left-wing culture coming after people who don’t agree with it. Now the threat is other Americans. The threat is people who don’t think like you.  archived recording (donald trump) Well, thank you very much. And Governor Noem, Secretary Bernhardt, we very much appreciate it. Members of Congress, distinguished guests, and a very special hello to South Dakota.  michael barbaro  OK, let’s talk about how this speech actually unfolds. I watched it. I know you did as well. So I want us to walk through it and pick out a few key passages that illuminate what he’s actually up to here, kind of a close reading of this speech. So where do you think we should start?  maggie haberman  I would start just understanding what it looked like. He was standing at this podium, surrounded by flags, in front of this historic monument.  archived recording (donald trump) There could be no better place to celebrate America’s independence than beneath this magnificent, incredible, majestic mountain monument to the greatest Americans who have ever lived.  maggie haberman  And that was supposed to underscore this current conversation about monuments and statues around the country.  archived recording (donald trump) I am here as your president to proclaim before the country and before the world, this monument will never be desecrated. These heroes will never be defaced. Their legacy will never, ever be destroyed. Their achievements will never be forgotten. And Mount Rushmore will stand forever as an eternal tribute to our forefathers and to our freedom.  maggie haberman  Much of the conversation has been around Confederate totems, Confederate statues, the Confederate flag. The president has resisted those conversations. But even members of his own party have said that it is time to remove some of those monuments. Where he is drawing the line is when the conversation moves to George Washington or Thomas Jefferson. Those are two of the faces on Mount Rushmore. And that’s part of why he’s choosing to have this conversation there.  michael barbaro  And what is he saying about that debate around statues to presidents like that?  maggie haberman  What he is suggesting is that the political left is trying to rewrite history —  archived recording (donald trump) 1776 represented the culmination of thousands of years of Western civilization and the triumph of not only spirit, but of wisdom, philosophy and reason. And yet —  maggie haberman  — by calling into question those men, by suggesting that their legacies need to be thought about again.  archived recording (donald trump) As we meet here tonight, there is a growing danger that threatens every blessing our ancestors fought so hard for, struggled. They bled to secure —  maggie haberman  And the reason that people are saying that their legacies need to be reconsidered is because they were slaveholders, and that you can’t have an honest conversation about race if you do not acknowledge that.  archived recording (donald trump) Our nation is witnessing a merciless campaign to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values and indoctrinate our children.  maggie haberman  What he’s really trying to do is convince Republicans who are feeling shaky about him — and he hopes some independent voters — that the protests around the country have gone too far. He is trying to get them to see it the way he sees it, which is, this isn’t just a movement about the Confederacy. They’re coming for our whole history — “our.” They are coming for the history of white America.  archived recording (donald trump) Angry mobs are trying to tear down statues of our founders, deface our most sacred memorials and unleash a wave of violent crime in our cities.  maggie haberman  It is in keeping with what President Trump has done for many, many years now, which is an ‘us versus them’ approach to his base of older, white voters.  archived recording (donald trump) But no, the American people are strong and proud. And they will not allow our country and all of its values, history and culture to be taken from them.  michael barbaro  OK, what stands out next to you in this speech?  maggie haberman  So the president very quickly went on to talk about how a, quote unquote, political weapon of the Americans he is talking about in this speech is —  archived recording (donald trump) Cancel culture.  maggie haberman  — so-called “cancel culture.”  archived recording (donald trump) Driving people from their jobs, shaming dissenters and demanding total submission from anyone who disagrees.  maggie haberman  He is describing it as anyone who disagrees with certain folks are going to get chased out of polite society. And that’s not really what this.  archived recording (donald trump) This is the very definition of totalitarianism. And it is completely alien to our culture and to our values. And it has absolutely no place in the United States of America.  maggie haberman  So in part, this is appealing to a longstanding sense among conservatives that they are being attacked by the left for their beliefs. Also notice his emphasis on our values and our culture. He has used the words culture and values repeatedly to appeal to his base since 2017. This is the thing that he shares with his voters. It certainly is not geography — in many cases they’re in the Deep South. And he is a man from Queens. But this sense of our way of life is being taken over is what he has used time and again to appeal to people.  archived recording (donald trump) This attack on our liberty, our magnificent liberty, must be stopped. And it will be stopped very quickly. We will expose this dangerous movement, protect our nation’s children, end this radical assault and preserve our beloved American way of life. In our schools, our newsrooms, even our corporate boardrooms, there is a new far-left fascism that demands absolute allegiance. If you do not speak its language, perform its rituals, recite its mantras, and follow its commandments, then you will be censored, banished, blacklisted, persecuted and punished. It’s not going to happen to us.  michael barbaro  So Maggie, what is the next passage in this speech that strikes you?  maggie haberman  Sure. So keeping up with these themes, the president went on and said —  archived recording (donald trump) This left-wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the American Revolution.  maggie haberman  — “This left-wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the American Revolution.” And then he went on a little bit later to say their goal is not a better America. Their goal is the end of America.  archived recording (donald trump) In so doing, they would destroy the very civilization that rescued billions from poverty, disease, violence and hunger, and that lifted humanity to new heights of achievement, discovery and progress.  maggie haberman  You would think that he was talking about the British the way that he’s describing this —  archived recording (donald trump) In its place, they want power for themselves.  maggie haberman  — as opposed to talking about primarily Black people in this country, but not only, who have been trying to right historic wrongs. He is making it sound, once again, as if something is being taken from him and his supporters.  michael barbaro  In this case, American civilization?  maggie haberman  Yes. And he is trying to drive that home with everything he says.  michael barbaro  I mean, this feels like race baiting.  maggie haberman  I think it more than feels that way, Michael. I would argue it is race baiting. Look, I don’t think that Donald Trump is suddenly a different person. I think this is who he has been for a very, very long time, going back decades. But I do think he is getting explicit in what he is saying, both as protests are growing in the country and as his own poll numbers are sinking.  archived recording (donald trump) But just as patriots did in centuries past, the American people will stand in their way. And we will win, and win quickly and with great dignity.  maggie haberman  He is not explicitly using the words black and white. But he is explicitly describing one version of America versus another. And that, I think, is different, along with the fact that we have really not seen a president before use an Independence Day speech to be so divisive and to pit Americans in two, the way he is here.  michael barbaro  So Maggie, how does this speech end?  archived recording (donald trump) Americans must never lose sight of this miraculous story.  maggie haberman  So the president concludes this speech by saying he wants to build —  archived recording (donald trump) I am signing an executive order to establish the National Garden of American Heroes.  maggie haberman  — a garden of statues.  archived recording (donald trump) A vast, outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans to ever live.  maggie haberman  And in this garden, he wants to put a variety of American figures — presidents, artists, sports figures.  archived recording (donald trump) From this night —  maggie haberman  And with that —  archived recording (donald trump) — and from this magnificent place —  maggie haberman  — the president applauded for himself and for the crowd.  archived recording (donald trump) — God bless your families. God bless our great military. And God bless America. Thank you very much.  maggie haberman  And there was a fireworks display over Mount Rushmore.  [music]  michael barbaro  We’ll be right back. Maggie, what most surprises me about this speech, and the fact that it is supposed to be a reset of a presidential campaign, is that the message seems to fly in the face of polling that shows Americans don’t agree with this version of how to deal with race. And I want to read a question that The Times asked voters in six swing states about these protests. And here was the question: Would you rather have a candidate who says that we need to be tough on protests that go too far, or whether they would rather have a candidate who says we need to focus on the cause of those protests, even when they go too far? And voters told The Times in those swing states by a 40 percent margin that they would rather have a candidate who focuses on a cause of the protests, even when they go too far. So doesn’t that suggest that the president, this speech, this message is profoundly out of sync with the electorate?  maggie haberman  Look, Michael, you read the polls. I read the polls. They all make clear that the president is wildly out of step with where the majority of voters are right now, where conservative voters are, where independent voters are, where a broad spectrum of voters are. This is a president who likes to do things his own way. He has ideas that he wants to put out there, regardless of how much it upsets his advisers, regardless of how scared senators are about losing their seats because his rhetoric is making things very hard for them. But he is not where the majority of Americans are in those polls.  michael barbaro  So Maggie, what is the thinking here? If the president’s re-election campaign has seen those polls that you and I have all seen, do they see something that we’re not seeing? Do they have a theory that extends beyond these poll numbers?  maggie haberman  Many of the people in the president’s campaign believe the direction that the polls are taking, even if they argue with some of the margins. Some of the people around the president share with him a belief or theory, or whatever you want to call it, that people are not being honest with the pollsters when they talk about how much support they have for these protests, and that the numbers will come around in President Trump’s favor when we get to the fall.  michael barbaro  And help me understand that. When they say that they don’t think the polls reflect the real support for this movement, what do they mean?  maggie haberman  They think that people are inclined to lie to pollsters on matters of race. Now there have been campaigns where that has happened. The margins that we’re talking about are so large that it would be really hard to fathom that. But that is the bet that some of his advisers are making. Now are they making that on science? Not necessarily. Are they making that on political research? Only on the margins. For the most part, this is wishcasting that the president is not doing himself the damage he seems to be doing.  michael barbaro  Maggie, campaigns tend to be defined by debates in their ranks about what is the right approach to a moment. So I have to imagine that inside the Trump campaign there is a debate about whether this is the right approach to this moment. Is that your sense?  maggie haberman  No, Michael. I don’t think there’s much of a debate going on.  michael barbaro  Why not?  maggie haberman  Because there’s the way the president wants to campaign. And they try to shape it around that. This is what Donald J. Trump thinks his campaign message should be. Now, there are areas where his advisers have gotten him to stick to that script that was written out and say things that they consider to be less potentially divisive. So for instance, he spoke broadly about culture and history. But he did not explicitly give a defense of Confederate statues, which really turns off suburban voters, in particular suburban women. And his advisers were very pleased with that, that he stuck to the script and didn’t say Confederate. But then on Monday morning, he tweets support of the Confederate flag being aired at NASCAR events. So it undoes a lot of what had taken place before.  michael barbaro  Maggie, when you talk to people in the Trump campaign and you present them with what seems like a pretty significant dilemma here — a president with a message and a national mood that seems very out of sync with it — what do they say?  maggie haberman  There is no evidence that this message is going to help the president win again. There is no evidence that this is a successful approach to the voters he needs in order to win. But advisers are pretty candid that he thinks this is how he won last time. And he is convinced he can do it again.  michael barbaro  Right, so what you’re saying is the president is assuming that the country is more or less exactly where it was in 2016, and that this will all work out the same way and yield the same result — an electoral college victory based on white voters supporting him?  maggie haberman  Correct. The president is of the opinion — and again, this is not his campaign. There are people in the campaign who understand this is not the same electorate. But the president has convinced himself that nothing has changed, that he can turn Joe Biden into Hillary Clinton. And so far there is no reason to believe that either of those things is true.  michael barbaro  So Maggie, at this point, is this the message that you expect the Trump campaign to be using between now and November? A message of the left being the enemy and white America needing to be afraid of this movement seeking racial equality.  maggie haberman  The campaign itself, I think, would like to be delivering a less blunt instrument version of what the president is saying. But because the president is able to speak only the way he’s comfortable, he will not change. And so yes, I think this is what you will see for the next few months.  michael barbaro  Thank you, Maggie.  maggie haberman  Thank you, Michael.  michael barbaro
Trump disregards public health warnings for speech at Mt. Rushmore|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tqKjpqWMFZU|
Protesters block road leading to Mount Rushmore ahead of Trump event, approximately 15 arrested|https://www.foxnews.com/politics/protesters-block-mount-rushmore-road-trump-event|About 15 protesters were arrested Friday after they blocked an access road to Mount Rushmore hours before President Trump was scheduled to give remarks to kick off Independence Day weekend.  According to the Associated Press, the protest group was mostly made up of Native Americans protesting that South Dakota’s Black Hills were taken from the Lakota people against treaty agreements.  One group parked three vans across the road and removed the tires from two of the vehicles to make it more difficult to remove them. Several demonstrators climbed on top of the vans chanting “Land back!”  The sheriff’s office said attendees had been told to arrive early and should have been past the roadblock by the time the standoff began. However, the Rapid City Journal reported that some motorists who had tickets for Friday evening's fireworks show were unable to get through the protests and were standing by their cars watching the standoff.  The Journal also reported that law enforcement in riot gear as well as members of the National Guard had declared an unlawful assembly.  TRUMP TO ACCUSE 'LEFT-WING MOB' OF 'TOTALITARIAN BEHAVIOR' IN MOUNT RUSHMORE REMARKS  Police later used pepper spray on several protesters to break up the standoff and tow trucks were brought in to remove the vans blocking the road. Arrests were made after protesters ignored a police-imposed deadline to leave.  The Journal reported that the lower bowl of the amptheater where Trump was scheduled to speak at approximately 8:50 p.m. local time was full, but there were many empty seats in the upper level.  President Trump has been outspoken against recent protests across America that have targeted historical monuments and statues demonstrators feel represent a pattern of systematic racism in the U.S.  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP  Sources confirmed for Fox News earlier Friday that Trump planned on addressing the “totalitarian behavior that is completely alien to American life” and the “cancel culture” he believes is being pushed by the left.  He is also expected to emphasize America’s history as a “great and virtuous country.”  “You can expect the president to express strong support for America’s military, the men and women of our police, and so many of our cherished principles and institutions that are under attack daily from the left," a senior administration official told Fox News in a statement Friday evening.  The Associated Press and Fox News' John Roberts contributed to this report.
Rebecca Grant: Trump critics enraged over his Mount Rushmore visit – But Obama and Hillary went earlier|https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/mount-rushmore-trump-rebecca-grant|President Trump’s visit Friday to Mount Rushmore in South Dakota for Independence Day festivities has generated plenty of hypocritical and manufactured criticism from camps of the discontented – but of course, Trump gets criticized from the left for almost everything he does.  How can you not love four giant faces of American presidents carved out of a mountain using dynamite? Presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt were not perfect (no one is), but unquestionably were patriots who served our country with enormous accomplishments.  Trump will speak at the ceremonies, which will also feature a military flyover, Lakota storytellers and hoop dancers, and the first fireworks show in 10 years.  THE NEW YORK TIMES SLAMMED AS 'WOKE POLICE' FOR REPORT TARGETING MOUNT RUSHMORE  Trump’s strategy should be to go big with a bold proposal for the national memorial, but first let’s look over the lineup of those aghast by the celebration.  First come the statue haters. Regrettably, the deeds and images of Washington, Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt and Lincoln have all been under unjustified attack in American cities of late.  The four presidents represent the birth, growth, expansion and preservation of America. The problem, according to Oglala Lakota Nation activist Nick Tilsen, is that “it’s an injustice to actively steal Indigenous people’s land then carve the white faces of the conquerors who committed genocide.”  NY TIMES COLUMNIST: 'YES, EVEN GEORGE WASHINGTON' STATUES MUST GO  The New York Times leaped on the bandwagon this week, helpfully pointing out that the memorial “was built on what had been Indigenous land.”  Well, here is some breaking news for the Times: every square inch of the United States, plus the rest of North America and Latin America, once “had been Indigenous land.”  Even the headquarters of oh-so politically correct New York Times sits on land in Manhattan that once belonged to indigenous people before it was purchased for almost nothing by the Dutch and later taken by the British. Horrors! Is the Times prepared to pull up stakes and relocate to Europe to atone for its sinful location?  And by the way, when the U.S. took control of the Black Hills in 1877, Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln were all deceased, and Teddy Roosevelt was 19 years old. So it’s quite a stretch to say any of these four presidents were responsible for acquiring the land or ordering the building of the memorial. Construction on the memorial began in 1927 – eight years after Roosevelt died.  The Black Hills of South Dakota are also the site of a gigantic mountain sculpture of Crazy Horse, the famed Oglala Lakota warrior, which has been under construction since 1948 – just 17 miles from Mount Rushmore.  There’s a strong current of Marxist alienation in the idea of knocking down statues to “get right with history.”  When finished, the Crazy Horse Memorial will be the largest mountain sculpture in the world and make the sculptures on Mount Rushmore look tiny by comparison. The sculpture of Crazy Horse mounted on a horse will be 641 feet long and 563 feet high. In contrast, each head of the presidents on Mount Rushmore is 60 feet high.  So one of the most famous Native Americans is being honored in South Dakota along with four American presidents.  Of course, part of the assault on Mount Rushmore is political. Certainly, the New York Times didn’t freak out when presidential candidates Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton visited Mount Rushmore during their 2008 campaigns.  Candidate Obama and a bus of campaign reporters visited Mount Rushmore late on a Friday evening in May 2008. The New York Times covered it as an adorable moment with Obama’s “tie not a half-inch ajar” and Obama joking with park rangers that his ears were too big to carve on the mountain.  Candidate Hillary Clinton had already been there. On her photo op a few days earlier, a reporter asked her if she could envision herself carved on the mountain. According to CBS, this prompted a visibly annoyed Clinton to say: “Why don't you learn something about the monument?” Good point.  But a dozen years on, it may be too late for history.  Tilsen told NPR on Wednesday that America is at “a reckoning and a realization that this country has to get right with its history” by which he meant “illuminating the current injustices that exist today in society.”  And that is where indigenous activism meets Karl Marx, the father of Communism in the 19th century. There’s a strong current of Marxist alienation in the idea of knocking down statues to “get right with history.”  For Marx, history wasn’t just dates and battles, but a flexible tool to help overturn the nation-state and free workers. It’s a long story, but the ideology we see today in autonomous zones and protest writings is a watered-down Marxist viewpoint: establish alienation from daily work and life, dissolve the state and plant the seeds of a new order. Attacking statues is part of it.  So the criticism of sculptures like Mount Rushmore can’t stop, even when it gets silly, for it is driving forward extreme left ambitions.  CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR OPINION NEWSLETTER  That’s why I’m hoping President Trump will call time out on the nonsense and renew America’s commitment to Mount Rushmore, that most unsubtle emblem of American achievement. I think he should offer something grand and bold, like completing Lincoln’s face.  Personally, I used to be lukewarm about Mount Rushmore. My family visited in 2017, but I’d take Mount Vernon or Independence Hall or the battlefield at Yorktown for pure patriotic chills.  However, in this summer of statue stupidity, Mount Rushmore has taken on a new mantle of importance. I’m thankful that it can’t be easily spray-painted, pulled down or relocated. It’s not perfect or complete but Mount Rushmore is big enough to rise above it all. And so is America.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  You know who really understood Mount Rushmore? Legendary director Alfred Hitchcock, who used mock-ups of the faces for Cary Grant to commit a movie murder in the 1959 thriller “North by Northwest.” Alfred Hitchcock was drawn by what grabs us still today: the sheer audacity of the place.  Let the celebration begin.  CLICK HERE TO READ MORE BY REBECCA GRANT
Nick Tilsen Trump's Mount Rushmore fireworks show is a Fourth of July attack on Indigenous people|https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/trump-s-mount-rushmore-fireworks-show-fourth-july-attack-indigenous-ncna1232827|On Friday, President Donald Trump continued his tour of racism and colonialism, moving from Tulsa, Oklahoma, to the sacred Black Hills. Make no mistake, this divisive visit was an attack on Indigenous people.  I visit the Black Hills alongside many other Lakotas every year as part of a tradition we have maintained for thousands of years. Stretching from what is now known as South Dakota into Wyoming, they are a sacred place that I take my family and my children to, like the Vatican for Catholics or Mecca for Muslims. The hills are where I feel most connected to Creator.  Two of the men carved into that mountain are slave owners, and one approved the mass hangings of 38 Dakota men in the largest mass execution in the history of the United States.  The Black Hills are also the site of death, violence and war. They are home to Mount Rushmore — a monument to white colonizers carved by a Ku Klux Klan sympathizer into land stolen from us by the U.S. government in 1877. Two of the men carved into that mountain are slave owners, and one approved the mass hangings of 38 Dakota men in the largest mass execution in the history of the United States.  Trump's visit to Mount Rushmore, timed to America's celebration of the Fourth of July, was almost a natural sequel to his rally in Tulsa — originally coinciding with Juneteenth. He is taking his campaign from the site of one of the United States' most horrific acts of racism to another place with long histories of oppression and state-sanctioned violence.  In 1868, our rights to the Black Hills were written into law through a treaty between the United States and several tribal nations, including the Oglala band of Lakotas, of which I am a citizen. The Senate ratified the treaty, enshrining it as the law of the land equivalent to the Constitution itself. However, when white colonizers discovered gold in our lands in 1874, they attacked us and have illegally occupied the Black Hills ever since.  Get the think newsletter. This site is protected by recaptcha  The Black Hills do not belong to Trump, and visiting this monument to white supremacy is an unacceptable political stunt.  We have never been silent in the face of such attacks on our people and our lands. The legendary Oglala warrior Crazy Horse led our people into battle to protect our lands. In the 1970s, members of the American Indian Movement occupied Mount Rushmore and declared it to be Mount Crazy Horse. Lakota litigators pushed through a 1980 Supreme Court decision that found the invasion of the Black Hills to be unconstitutional and that the United States must pay a settlement as reparations for trespassing and appropriating our lands without consent. But we have refused to accept the settlement — an amount that has slowly accrued interest and is now well over $1 billion — because we won't settle for anything less than the full return of our lands as stipulated by the treaties our nations signed and agreed upon.  Now, Trump is making a mockery of our pain and struggles, papering over an egregious theft.  "Mount Rushmore" is a racist and colonialist symbol of a society that does not care for Indigenous people — just like the statues of violent white men from Christopher Columbus to Andrew Jackson — that adorn public spaces across the United States.  Colonialism and racism are alive and well in America. Indigenous people are still facing inequities in accessing education, health care and economic opportunities. We are confronting extractive industries and corporations that only want to further take from us.  We've been removed from our homes, and now some of the most impoverished places in the U.S. are Indigenous places of struggle and residence.  Our lives have been stolen from us; our lands are occupied by colonizers. We've been removed from our homes, and now some of the most impoverished places in the U.S. are Indigenous places of struggle and residence. In South Dakota, where I live on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, Indigenous people constitute less than 10 percent of the population but roughly half of those booked into the state's jails.  Black leaders and activists have ushered in a historic moment for this country: Everyday people are talking about white supremacy and its impact on our laws and lives. Everyday people are interested in the symbolism and history of racism, and activists are taking down Confederate statues in the South and statues of Christopher Columbus across the nation. But our liberation work must protect and advance Indigenous people, too, including our right to self-determination and sovereignty.  In the midst of a national reckoning on race, the hypocrisy of Mount Rushmore must be interrogated and denounced. The so-called Shrine of Democracy is carved into stolen land that even our Constitution holds to be illegally occupied.  Trump's visit was a deliberate attack on Indigenous people, just as his visit to the site of the Black Wall Street massacre the day after Juneteenth was an attack on Black people. If you truly care about fighting our country's racist history, now is not a day to be silent.  Related:
Trump re-election T-shirts accused of having Nazi-like symbol|https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-election/donald-trump-nazi-tshirt-symbol-campaign-america-first-a9600466.html|Only weeks after Facebook removed a Donald Trump re-election ad for including a Nazi symbol, his campaign is now selling merchandise with symbols resembling other Third Reich imagery.  A T-shirt being sold on the campaign website features an eagle perched on top of a circle that is strikingly similar to the official national insignia of Nazi Germany.  The “America First Tee” is available for both men and women and sells for $30. It features a blue-outlined eagle, turning to its left, gripping a circular stars and stripes flag above a banner reading “Trump 2020”. The words “America First” appear in bold red above the image.  Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines  While the bald eagle was chosen as the centre of the seal of the United States by the Founding Fathers in 1782, the design of the T-shirt is much more reminiscent of the Reichsadler, the imperial eagle adopted as Germany’s national symbol after a decree from Adolf Hitler in 1935.  In the Nazi symbol, a stylised, modernist, black eagle looks to its right, and the circle it clutches in its talons is a wreath with a swastika at its centre.  Social media users were quick to react when the similarity was pointed out by Bend the Arc: Jewish Action, who said of the Trump/Pence campaign: “It’s not an accident. Bigotry is their entire brand.”  The incredulity that the campaign might even unwittingly use a symbol so close to Nazi iconography was palpable given the brevity of some responses.  The Lincoln Project tweeted the images with the words: “Come. On.”  General Michael Hayden, former director of the CIA, tweeted: “Holy sh*t.”  The Trump campaign has dismissed the allegations as “moronic” according to the Daily Caller.  The Anti-Defamation League lists the Nazi eagle as a hate symbol that was later appropriated by neo-Nazis and white supremacists after World War Two. Where the swastika is forbidden, it is replaced by SS bolts, a Celtic cross, or is left blank.  A Twitter user appeared to track the graphic used by the Trump campaign to a stock image website that now appears to have removed it. Other eagle and flag images in a similar style with shields or banners remain.  Facebook decided to remove dozens of Trump campaign ads citing the use of a “banned hate group’s symbol”.  Daily coronavirus briefing No hype, just the advice and analysis you need Enter your email address Continue Continue Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid Email already exists. Log in to update your newsletter preferences Register with your social account or click here to log in I would like to receive morning headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Update newsletter preferences  The campaign used an upside-down red triangle — which the Nazis had sewn onto the clothes of political prisoners in concentration camps — in ads that referred to Antifa, the decentralised grouping of anti-fascist protesters that the president calls a terrorist organisation.  The Washington Post reports that Trump campaign spokesperson Tim Murtaugh called the red triangle an Antifa symbol. A more common symbol for anti-fascist groups is a circle containing red and black flags.
Democrats lead in three key Senate races, CNBC/Change Research poll finds|https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/01/senate-polls-democrats-lead-in-arizona-michigan-and-north-carolina.html|Retired Navy Capt. Mark Kelly, husband of former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz., testifies during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on "What Should America Do About Gun Violence?" on Wednesday, Jan. 30, 2013. Bill Clark | CQ Roll Call  Democrats lead in three pivotal U.S. Senate races as President Donald Trump falls into a deeper hole in his reelection bid, according to a new CNBC/Change Research poll. The survey took the pulse of competitive Senate elections in Arizona, Michigan and North Carolina — three of the six 2020 election swing states featured in the poll released Wednesday. The other states — Florida, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — do not have Senate contests this year. In Arizona, Democratic former astronaut Mark Kelly leads Republican Sen. Martha McSally by a 53% to 44% margin, according to the CNBC/Change Research poll. The senator, appointed to fill the late John McCain's seat after she lost a 2018 election in the state to Democratic Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, has consistently trailed Kelly in polls.  Senator Gary Peters, a Democrat from Michigan, speaks during a Senate Subcommittee on Transportation and Safety hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, Feb. 4, 2020. Stefani Reynolds | Bloomberg | Getty Images  Meanwhile, Democratic Sen. Gary Peters of Michigan — one of the few Democratic senators facing a strong Republican challenge this year — holds a 49% to 42% edge over GOP Army veteran John James, the survey found. While Trump narrowly won the state on his way to the White House in 2016, recent polls have showed a challenging environment in Michigan for both the president and James. In North Carolina, Democratic former state Sen. Cal Cunningham holds a 51% to 41% advantage over Republican Sen. Thom Tillis, according to the CNBC/Change Research poll. A RealClearPolitics average of recent polls shows a much closer race for the Senate seat.
Some Senators Want to ‘Go Nuclear’ to Pass Democratic Priorities|https://www.wsj.com/articles/some-senators-want-to-go-nuclear-to-pass-democratic-priorities-11593777600|WASHINGTON—Democrats’ improved prospects for winning both chambers of Congress and the White House in November have reignited calls within the party to end the Senate filibuster, lowering the bar for passing all legislation to a simple majority.  Lawmakers of both parties have resisted throwing out the current three-fifths threshold—60 votes when the Senate has no vacancies—even as they changed the rules for federal judicial and executive-branch nominees, and most recently Supreme Court picks, to require just 51 votes when...
The Senate goes home for July Fourth recess as states wait on coronavirus stimulus|https://www.vox.com/2020/7/3/21308503/senate-coronavirus-stimulus-states|It’s now been more than six weeks since the House passed the HEROES Act, its latest take on additional stimulus as workers, businesses, and states continue to grapple with the economic fallout of the coronavirus. The Senate, however, wants to wait two more before considering a bill of its own.  Both chambers of Congress have officially left for a two-week July Fourth recess and Senate Republicans have said floor consideration of stimulus legislation won’t happen until they’re back. “A month from now we should be in the final stages of getting that bill together,” Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) told reporters earlier this week. (The House is focused on committee work in the interim.)  Democrats have argued that this delay could have serious consequences, as states stare down budget cuts and households across the country deal with layoffs and upcoming rent and mortgage payments. Republicans, meanwhile, have noted that some of the previous stimulus funding is still being distributed and emphasize that they’re waiting to see how the economy performs as some states reopen.  The updates, so far, have been mixed: This past week, a monthly report showed an influx of 4.8 million jobs in June, a seemingly promising boost, but data collected more recently also revealed that more than 1 million new unemployment claims were filed last week. Additionally, the current unemployment rate remains one of the highest the country has seen in years, at 11.1 percent. Another complicating factor: Some recent gains are a result of states reopening businesses, a move that some have had to reverse as coronavirus cases have spiked.  Economists tell Vox they’re particularly concerned about the limbo states are left in as a result of the Senate’s stimulus timing. While many have rainy-day funds, the delays of additional support make it tough for states to plan how well they will (or won’t) be able to provide public schooling, support for higher ed and Medicaid payments as they keep fielding sharp dips in revenue. For many states, their fiscal year budgets began on July 1, which has now come and gone.  “States are making decisions every day about what services they can provide and where they are going to need to lay people off, and, if they don’t know for sure that more funding is in the pipeline, they are going to err on the side of caution,” says Harvard Kennedy School economics professor Karen Dynan, a former chief economist for the Treasury Department. “That can’t be good, particularly when we are seeing cases surge in some places and all the more need for good health care and aggressive public health policy.”  Democrats’ legislation would have allocated more than $900 billion to states and localities to help cover some of the revenue shortfalls they’ve experienced, in addition to the $150 billion that’s already been set aside to help address coronavirus-related costs in the CARES Act. In the past, however, Republicans have chafed at providing more federal aid to states, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell dismissing such efforts as a “bailout” that could be used to address “preexisting” problems. He’s since noted that more funding is likely needed but shied away from the amounts Democrats have proposed.  It’s unclear whether Democrats and Republicans will be able to reach an agreement on the boost in state funds and next steps on other important programs, including pandemic unemployment insurance, which is due to expire at the end of July. For now, it’s a question the Senate won’t be addressing for a few weeks.  Quick action is needed for state funding and pandemic unemployment relief  Additional state funding and an agreement on pandemic unemployment are among the areas where there’s an urgent need for more action.  As Vox’s Emily Stewart has reported, state and city budgets have faced immense strain throughout the pandemic as they’ve seen massive declines in both sales and income tax revenues, as well as growing costs associated with addressing the coronavirus. Before the coronavirus outbreak, “Arizona expected a $1 billion surplus and is now staring down a $1.1 billion deficit,” she writes.  Some states, including Michigan, have already proposed significant cuts to the budgets for the next fiscal year, including more than $450 million in reductions to schools and universities. According to Pew, state and local governments have temporarily laid off or furloughed 1.5 million workers as of June.  “Assuming that this is just a delay and that Congress eventually passes a bill, I think the most immediate impact is on state budgets,” says UC Berkeley public policy and economics professor Jesse Rothstein. “States have been kicking the can down the road, hoping that the federal government gets its act together. ... The longer that is delayed, the worse off we will all be.”  At this point, it’s uncertain if Senate Republicans will be on board with much state funding even after they return to the Capitol: Top leaders including McConnell have signaled more openness to the idea but have been reluctant about an expansive package. If states don’t get the support they need — fast — more layoffs and budget reductions could add to the current economic fallout.  “When you cut the budget, you have to cut positions for workers, and that further compounds the recession that we’re having right now,” says University of Kansas economics professor Donna Ginther. “This is the exact wrong time for state governments to fend for themselves.”  A July 31 deadline is also looming over the expanded unemployment insurance that was included in the CARES Act. Slated to sunset at the end of the month, this policy adds another $600 per week to the unemployment support that individuals receive.  Given the ongoing nature of the pandemic, and the layoffs that have persisted at many businesses, Democrats have argued that this support should continue. As Cecilia Rouse, a former economic adviser for the Obama administration, previously told Vox, ideal pandemic response policies would help put the economy on pause and tide workers over, while the country resolves the public health crisis.  Republicans, though, have argued that state reopenings will provide a key boost and worried that extending the increased UI will deter people from returning to work as businesses rehire. The Labor Department’s most recent unemployment report, which saw an additional 1.4 million people file last week, however, made clear that many people are still dealing with job losses.  If the expanded UI benefits end by August, this change could have a notable impact on consumer spending and households’ ability to cover living costs including food and rent. “Everything I’ve seen suggests that unemployment is going to come part of the way back, but not all the way,” says Ginther.  Lawmakers have a narrow window to approve stimulus in July and August  Now that it’s off for recess, the Senate won’t be back until Monday, July 20 — when lawmakers will have a narrow window to strike a deal on the next package, before they’re due to leave once again for their next recess on August 10.  The upcoming UI deadline is among the notable dates putting pressure on Congress to work something out — both to ensure individuals continue to have the support they need and so that states can have the time to update their approach to UI distribution if that’s required.  Complicating the issue, as usual, is the White House. “The shape of any kind of package is very much up in the air,” White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Thursday, while noting that the administration opposes the pandemic unemployment insurance.  Experts emphasize that more stimulus is sorely needed, especially as cases of the coronavirus are spiking again in several states including Arizona, Texas, and Florida.  “The health crisis — and thus the economic crisis — show no signs of slowing down, and now is not the time to scale back on support to those who need it most,” says Natasha Sarin, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania.  Support Vox’s explanatory journalism  Every day at Vox, we aim to answer your most important questions and provide you, and our audience around the world, with information that has the power to save lives. Our mission has never been more vital than it is in this moment: to empower you through understanding. Vox’s work is reaching more people than ever, but our distinctive brand of explanatory journalism takes resources — particularly during a pandemic and an economic downturn. Your financial contribution will not constitute a donation, but it will enable our staff to continue to offer free articles, videos, and podcasts at the quality and volume that this moment requires. Please consider making a contribution to Vox today.
Does Amy McGrath have any chance against Mitch McConnell?|https://www.courier-journal.com/story/opinion/columnists/cross/2020/07/02/kentucky-us-senate-race-does-amy-mcgrath-have-any-chance-kentucky/5359749002/|Al Cross  Opinion contributor  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell surely smiled as he watched Amy McGrath slip, stumble and nearly fall to state Rep. Charles Booker in the Democratic primary for his seat.  The first challenger who could match Mr. Money dollar for dollar had to drain half her campaign fund to fend off an upstart who was the ideal surfer of a historic wave of outrage about police treatment of his fellow African Americans – and a clear voice for change on several fronts.  McGrath escaped by less than 3% of the vote, and it seems clear that if most ballots had been cast on primary day, not earlier by absentee, she would have lost. That would have been one of the greatest pratfalls in modern American politics, since she’s raised more than $40 million, more than any other Senate candidate this year.  Senate race:Amy McGrath's challenge is unifying Kentucky Democrats  125-day countdown:Mitch McConnell is dusting off tried-and-true reelection playbook  But while the pandemic made for early voting, it also made officials delay the election five weeks, and the original May 19 date preceded the national brushfire that ignited Booker’s campaign. McGrath had started the race badly and was still in general-election mode, giving Booker plenty of kindling.  Can McGrath regain her footing? Does she have any chance of denying one of the world’s most powerful politicians a seventh six-year term, in a state that last elected a Democratic senator 28 years ago, when the iconic Wendell Ford last won re-election? And one that President Donald Trump won by nearly 30 points?  If she is to move her chances beyond theoretical, McGrath has to inspire confidence that will maintain her national funding base; get party-uniting help from Booker, who called her ”the b.s. candidate;” then escape that label and find a way to make Trump’s voters spurn McConnell, who has hitched himself closely to the more popular president.  At the start of her campaign, McGrath offered Trump voters a three-point pitch: McConnell is part of the D.C. swamp Trump vowed to drain, and is blocking lower drug prices and job-boosting infrastructure work. But she flip-flopped on confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, encouraging the false label of “pro-Trump Democrat,” then was forced to say how she would have voted on impeachment (to convict), and that is the lodestar question for Trump voters.  McGrath picked the right issues, which echo voters’ core concerns such as jobs and health care, but Trump runs a cult of personality that transcends those issues for many voters. It will take all the money McGrath has, and probably more, to make more voters focus on issues rather than personalities, especially of a president that a solid majority still seem to support.  Opinion:Mitch McConnell should do more to help global neighbors combat the coronavirus  What could change that calculus? A couple of things, one specific and one general.  The pandemic is under control in Kentucky, but not in many states, and that threatens the whole country and its economic recovery. Trump’s mismanagement of it is clear to voters; only 30% of Americans think he and his minions even get the facts about it right most of the time, and McConnell, who takes little for granted, seems to sense danger in that.  The senator has worn face masks since the pandemic hit, but a week ago he proactively urged Kentuckians to wear them. In addition to public-health concerns, he likely realizes that unless Republicans get serious about thwarting the coronavirus, it is likely to thwart their hopes of keeping a Senate majority, much less the White House.  The more general threat to McConnell and some other Republicans is that the country could be headed for a “wave election,” in which widespread revulsion about Trump and our national predicament will turn some red states – or at least some of their seats in Congress – blue. (The national average of right-wrong-track polls is 44 points to the negative.)  McConnell has rarely had a favorable job rating in Kentucky in recent years, but he knows how to make voters dislike his opponent more than they dislike him. He’s already spent millions reminding us of McGrath’s “farther left” and late-term-abortion comments in her House race and has returned to that theme, but it won’t work as well now that McGrath’s primary foes have confirmed her moderation via criticism.  Still, McConnell knows how to keep a base and play a backlash. In his new TV ad, he says “Now the mobs have come for our Founders and our heroes,” and shows wrongful destruction of statues and monuments. Every movement has those who go too far and bring discredit to it, Kentucky is a state where tradition runs strong and McConnell knows how Kentuckians think and react. They like leaders who take clear stands, something McGrath needs to remember.  She’s a longshot, but this is a volatile time, and I recall what I said to myself the night Trump was elected: “Now, almost anything can happen.”  Al Cross, a former Courier Journal political writer, is professor and director of the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues at the University of Kentucky. He writes this column for the Kentucky Center for Public Service Journalism. Reach him on Twitter @ruralj.
Never Trumpers must forgive GOP senators|https://www.newsday.com/opinion/columnists/william-f-b-o-reilly/bill-o-reilly-never-trumpers-gop-senators-1.46282525|The U.S. Capitol might look very different seven months from now.  If current polling holds, we’re probably looking at a Democratic White House, Senate, and House of Representatives in January 2021.  That’s great news to many Americans — but it shouldn't be to a single political conservative, Never Trumpers included.  The smartest thing Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell did in the past four years is resist President Donald Trump’s insistence on retiring the filibuster, the stabilizing Senate mechanism that requires 60 votes for bill passage. But that’s no guarantee that a Democrat-led Senate would be similarly magnanimous.  If New York Sen. Chuck Schumer becomes majority leader, the filibuster is probably safe — no matter what he says publicly — but there’s a purge going on in the Democratic Party and one can’t be sure that Schumer would survive in the long term. He’s up for reelection in 2022, already a target of a democratic socialist wing of his party that’s been picking off establishment Democrats one by one.  For Republicans who oppose Trump — myself among them — the animosity for GOP members of Congress who have succumbed to Trump and Trumpism is almost visceral. We were looking for heroes, and few emerged. But working to knock off sitting Republicans as a punishment for spinelessness isn’t worth it in this political environment. One doesn’t have to like or vote for certain incumbents on Nov. 3, but proactively working to defeat them may prove deeply regrettable. The country is desperate for stability, and veering from a right-wing populist revolution to an unfettered left wing one wouldn’t be constructive at all.  The argument of Never Trumpers is that the Republican Party needs to be taught a lesson. Only by smashing all vestiges of Trumpism — including those who facilitated it — can the Party of Lincoln be righted. So some noble-minded Never Trump groups are running powerful, deep-pocketed political advertisements against vulnerable Republican Senate and House members. But toward what end, really, other than emotional satisfaction?  Vulnerable Republicans come from swing districts, and replacing them with Democrats would likely result in long-term Democratic House and Senate majorities. Without the filibuster, that could prove disastrous for Republicans and Never Trump Republicans alike.  Sign up for The Point Go inside New York politics. By clicking Sign up, you agree to our privacy policy.  The concerns of many are allayed by former Vice President Joe Biden’s relative political moderation, but Biden is 77 years old; would he be strong enough as president to keep his leftward-lurching party in check? Because face it, the populist legislative agendas of Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez are front and center in today’s Democratic Party. Their bills would be first on the docket under a Democratic administration that appears more likely with every passing political survey.  We will all take lessons from the Trump presidency, whether it lasts four or eight years. I have arrived at two: Most people are sheep (taking the course of least resistance is human nature, something conservatives intrinsically understand in supporting a nation of laws rather than a nation of passions) and partisan loyalty is stronger than I ever believed.  Neither of these truisms would be especially worrisome in a Republican Party sans Donald Trump. It’s something Never Trumpers may want to consider before cutting that next ad.  William F. B. O’Reilly is a consultant to Republicans.
Senate strips provision from intelligence bill requiring campaigns to report foreign election help|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/30/politics/senate-removes-ban-foreign-election-help/index.html|(CNN) The Senate will incorporate the annual intelligence policy legislation into the National Defense Authorization Act -- but only after stripping language from the intelligence bill that would have required presidential campaigns to report offers of foreign election help.  Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Tuesday that Senate Republicans forced the removal of the election reporting provision as a condition to include the intelligence bill on the must-pass defense policy legislation.  Earlier this month, the Senate Intelligence Committee approved an amendment on an 8-7 vote from Warner and GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, which added a provision to the Intelligence Authorization Act requiring campaigns to notify federal authorities about offers of foreign election help.  That bill, however, was unlikely to get Senate floor time on its own, which is why it's being included in the National Defense Authorization Act. The effort to strip the foreign election help provision from the intelligence bill was not a surprise, as acting Senate Intelligence Chairman Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, predicted earlier this month it would be removed before the bill was on the floor, because of an objection from the Senate Rules Committee.  Warner bemoaned what he called a "back-room deal" to strip out the provision.  Read More
Is Trump's Republican Party even conservative?|https://www.independent.co.uk/voices/trump-republican-party-election-interference-russia-2020-a9596576.html|If you had to write down the fundamental tenets of conservatism on the back of a cigarette packet, national sovereignty would surely make the scribble. "Let's not allow foreign powers to meddle in our elections" is about as basic as it gets — especially for a political party whose bread and butter is flag-waving and freedom-crowing. But with the latest “back room deal” from GOP senators just exposed, it is fair to say for far too many, love of country is a grift.  Yesterday, Senate Republicans killed a part of the Intelligence Authorization Act mandating that presidential campaigns report any endeavors by foreign entities to interfere in American elections. Proponent of the legislation Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) said the behind-closed-doors cull was a condition of passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which is being debated in the Senate this week.  Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines  It is not the first time this legislation has been thwarted by GOP senators, despite it having bipartisan support among the Senate Intelligence Committee, on which Warner is the ranking Democrat. In a frustrated speech on the Senate floor, Warner stressed that Russia plans to meddle in future elections, and accused senior Republicans of being more concerned with receiving applause from Trump on Twitter than protecting the United States.  He rebuffed claims that rejection of the bill was due to committee jurisdiction squabbles, vowing to add the legislation as an amendment so that GOP lawmakers that wanted to reject it would have to go on record: “Are you for election security, or are you for allowing foreign entities to interfere and offer assistance, with no requirement to report?”  I think we already know the answer to this. Let us not forget that in 2019 the Democrats rallied around a pledge not to use hacked information on their opponents in 2020’s election – but the Trump campaign and the RNC refused.  In 2016, Never-Trump conservatives warned that the man was "not conservative and not qualified”. The former issue probably gets the least attention in the mainstream, but it’s important. If a conservative leader is not conservative in the most fundamental way, then what is he for, except to be a gravy train for career politicians who, having thrown their lot in with him, can wear his treachery too? Whether or not one agrees with an America First policy thrust to begin with is largely irrelevant here, because within the GOP leadership, the notion has failed on its own terms; none are putting country before party.  We hear a lot of talk about left-wing virtue signalling – obsessions with symbols and cheap words. But the right has had its own version – sham patriotism – for time out of mind. Of all the easy aesthetics a Republican could opt for, flag-waving is number one. Now, this latest failure to protect the homeland exposes this symbolism as a grift. Just as anyone (except perhaps Mike Pence) can say “black lives matter” without any meaningful action, “God bless America” is an easy right-wing virtue signal.  Given that patriotism is a core tenet of conservatism, this latest act disqualifies much of the Republican Senate on its own terms, never mind any ideological arguments with Democrats.  For anyone born in the shadow of the Cold War, it is hard to imagine a time in which the United States would be so demeaned as to fail to preclude election meddling from Russia, of all places. If nothing else, it should offend the GOP’s vanity.  In his speech on the floor of the Senate, Warner lamented that: “In a different time, with a different president, this bill wouldn’t be controversial at all.” But the problem is that too many career Republicans have had their principles tested and been found wanting. Trump goes after dissenters within his own party with fire and fury, calling them “human scum” – ironically, just as his pal Kim Jong-un’s propaganda apparatus describes North Korean defectors. Having mostly capitulated, Republicans in Congress can wear his failures.  In moving to protect Trump, they are continuing to hedge their bets, even though many privately disapprove of his actions. His polling numbers are currently dismal, and they are banking on a bounce. To that end, in the coming months, we’ll see the sham patriotism ramped up.  In the run-up to November’s election, the GOP leadership will, as Republicans often do, run on a “Dems hate America” platform, illustrating Trump’s pronouncements with burning buildings and looted store footage. They will play this card, despite having failed to play Patriotism 101: The United States is a sovereign nation and must decide its own elections.  For too many, this card will land. Millions still love this president. For many more, the right name on a badge carries the day, and a flag on sinking sands is still a flag.
Colorado U.S. Senate Primary Election Results|https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/06/30/us/elections/results-colorado-senate-primary-election.html|Colorado is a top Senate target for Democrats. But after some stumbles, former Gov. John Hickenlooper is facing a tougher-than-expected primary contest against Andrew Romanoff.
House Follows Senate In Passing Extension Of COVID-19 Business Loans|https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2020/07/01/886417532/house-follows-senate-in-passing-extension-of-covid-19-business-loans|House Follows Senate In Passing Extension Of COVID-19 Business Loans  Enlarge this image toggle caption Bill O'Leary/AP Bill O'Leary/AP  House members unanimously passed an extension of the $660 billion Paycheck Protection Program, aimed at helping small businesses weather the COVID-19 pandemic. The voice vote came a day after the Senate approved the measure.  The PPP had expired Tuesday at midnight. If President Trump signs the extension, the program will operate through Aug. 8.  The program was created as part of the original $3 trillion package of economic pandemic relief measures that passed Congress in March. The forgivable loans, doled out by the Small Business Administration, are meant to help small businesses keep employees on the payroll despite lockdowns and a general downturn in business as a result of the coronavirus.  There was a scramble to claim the first round, amounting to $349 billion, which was exhausted in just 13 days. A second round of $310 billion has not been fully spent.  On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin suggested the remaining $140 billion in loans under the program could be repurposed to aid restaurants, hotels and other industries hit hardest by the pandemic.  The extension passed by Congress is aimed at keeping the spigot open while lawmakers mull reworking the program.
Primary results: 4 takeaways from Colorado, Utah and Oklahoma|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/30/politics/primary-results-highlights-june-30/index.html|(CNN) The latest round of primaries on Tuesday led to a top Democratic Senate recruit escaping his primary with damage done and Republicans vying for a chance to run in a competitive House race unable to coalesce around one candidate.  John Hickenlooper won his primary but not without suffering some blows, something the top Democrats who recruited the former Colorado governor had hoped to avoid. Hickenlooper's errors, while largely self-inflicted, could end up helping Sen. Cory Gardner, a Republican who -- given Colorado's voting history -- seems particularly vulnerable. In the western part of the state, an incumbent Republican congressman was ousted by a far-right challenger.  In another closely watched race, Republicans in Oklahoma City were unable to coalesce around one candidate on Tuesday and two candidates will head to a late August runoff for the chance to take on Democratic Rep. Kendra Horn, one of the biggest surprises for Democrats in the 2018 midterms, in November.  And in Utah, a former NFL player and Fox News commentator will take on a Democrat in another key pickup opportunity for the GOP.  Here are CNN's takeaways:  A Republican incumbent falls  In the biggest surprise of the night, Rep. Scott Tipton, a Trump-backed congressman representing western Colorado, lost his primary to Lauren Boebert, a far-right owner of a gun-themed restaurant who most recently fought to keep her business open despite Colorado's coronavirus regulations.  Tipton conceded to Boebert on Tuesday night, saying in a statement that Republicans in his district "have decided who they want to run against the Democrats this November. I want to congratulate Lauren Boebert and wish her and her supporters well."  Trump endorsed Tipton on Monday in a tweet, but minutes after the congressman conceded, the Republican president lauded Boebert.  "Congratulations on a really great win," he wrote, roughly 24 hours after he had endorsed Boebert's opponent.  Boebert's win is the latest example of a candidate who sympathizes with the pro-Trump QAnon conspiracy theory winning Republican primaries. Boebert told an interviewer in May that she was "very familiar with" the conspiracy, adding that it was "only motivating and encouraging and bringing people together, stronger, and if this is real, then it could be really great for our country."  Democrats swiftly slammed the newly minted Republican nominee, with Cheri Bustos, chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, quickly calling for Washington Republicans to "immediately disavow Lauren Boebert and her extremist, dangerous conspiracy theories."  Hickenlooper exits primary bruised  Hickenlooper vanquished his Democratic primary opponent, former state House Speaker Andrew Romanoff, on Tuesday.  But it wasn't a clean win.  Hickenlooper, the establishment's pick to face vulnerable Republican Sen. Cory Gardner and a candidate in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary, stumbled repeatedly leading into Tuesday primary election, including angering activists with a bumbled answer on Black Lives Matter and the Colorado Independent Ethics Commission finding the former governor twice violated ethics laws in 2018.  "It's going to take all of us together to beat Cory Gardner and bring about the change this country so desperately needs," Hickenlooper said in a taped video. "I've never lost an election in this state, and I don't intend to lose this one. There's far too much at stake."  Hickenlooper's struggle to get out of the primary has clearly frustrated national Democrats, especially considering how critical defeating Gardner in November is to Democratic hopes of retaking the Senate. Without a Hickenlooper win, those chances are significantly harder.  And by struggling to get out of the primary, Hickenlooper has given Republicans more material against him over the next four months.  "If watching him fall apart under pressure these last few weeks is any indication, 'hot mess' Hickenlooper is in for a very bumpy ride," Joanna Rodriguez, spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said about the former governor's win.  Oklahoma House Republicans hopefuls headed to runoff  No Republican vying for the chance to take on Democratic Rep. Kendra Horn in November was able to avoid a runoff on Tuesday, meaning state Sen. Stephanie Bice and businesswoman Terry Neese will face off against each other on August 25.  The winner of the Republican primary will take on Horn, whose ability to narrowly win in 2018 in the Oklahoma City district President Donald Trump carried by 13 points was arguably the biggest surprise for Democrats in the midterms.  The district has been in flux, as Oklahoma City and the nearby suburbs grow younger and better educated, two factors that help Democrats. But Horn benefited from Trump not being on the ballot in 2018, and Republicans hope Trump could boost the Republican in the district.  Bice and Neese were the two frontrunners in the primary headed into Tuesday's voting. Bice is better financed, raising more than $1 million by the end of the pre-primary reporting period on June 10. But Neese was able to partly self-fund her primary bid, loaning her campaign $450,000 while raising around $532,000.  Republicans pick nominee in possible House pick-up  Utah Democrat Ben McAdams narrowly won his congressional seat in 2018 and Republicans hope to make him a one-term member.  And on Tuesday, the party picked their nominee: Former NFL player Burgess Owens, a Fox News commentator who raised the most money of all his Republican rivals headed into the primary.  Owens, who played a decade in the NFL as safety for the New York Jets and Oakland Raiders, bested state Rep. Kim Coleman to win the nomination.  Trump carried Utah's 4th Congressional District by 7 points in 2016. And while McAdams won in 2018, his win was narrow, leading Republicans to see the district as a top target for the party this fall.  If Owens, who is Black, is able to defeat McAdams, he would become one of only a few Black Republicans in either legislative body on Capitol Hill.  This story has been updated with additional developments Wednesday.
John Hickenlooper Wins Colorado Democratic Senate Primary|https://www.wsj.com/articles/john-hickenlooper-wins-colorado-democratic-senate-primary-11593567356|Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper won the Democratic Senate primary Tuesday night, setting up a high-profile contest this fall with incumbent Republican Sen. Cory Gardner as Democrats try to win control of the Senate.  In the primary, Mr. Hickenlooper defeated Andrew Romanoff, a former speaker of the Colorado House, according to a projection by the Associated Press. Voters largely cast votes by mail, though some polling places were open Tuesday.  ...
The Energy 202: John Hickenlooper pledges climate action after beating Green New Deal supporter in primary|https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-energy-202/2020/07/01/the-energy-202-john-hickenlooper-pledges-climate-action-after-beating-green-new-deal-supporter-in-primary/5efb3603602ff10807192237/|Former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper beat back a challenge from his left by a Green New Deal supporter in a tougher-than-anticipated Democratic primary race in which energy issues were a key point of contention.  Now Hickenlooper, an ex-petroleum geologist who is among the most oil-friendly Democrats running for Senate, will try to define himself as a champion on climate change and other environmental issues when he faces first-term Republican incumbent Sen. Cory Gardner in November.  During a speech aired online Tuesday night, Hickenlooper called climate change an "urgent need" that is "being ignored."  Gardner, too, is trying to cast himself as a conservationist by pushing a major public lands bills through the Senate in recent weeks.  Former Colorado governor John Hickenlooper in 2019. (Scott Morgan/Reuters)  A lot is at stake in Colorado for Democrats as they try to regain control of the Senate.  Gardner is seen as one of the most vulnerable Senate Republicans as Democrats are now more optimistic about prospects of retaking the chamber with relative moderate Joe Biden as the party's standard-bearer. Gardner and Susan Collins of Maine are the only Republican senators running for reelection in November in states that President Trump lost to Hillary Clinton in 2016. The GOP currently controls the Senate with a 53-to-47 majority.  “Let me be clear: Change is coming, and you and I are going to bring it together,” Hickenlooper said in a video asking supporters of his primary challenger, progressive former Colorado House speaker Andrew Romanoff, to back his bid. “I’ve never lost an election in this state, and I don’t intend to lose this one.”  Gardner has taken heat from environmentalists.  Gardner has been criticized by the League of Conservation Voters and other green groups for voting to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling and to support President Trump's rollback of Barack Obama-era rules curbing climate-warming pollution from power plants.  On Tuesday evening, the political arm of the Environmental Defense Fund was already noting that Hickenlooper's victory makes for a “stark contrast” with Gardner's “anti-environmental voting record.”  But the junior senator has recently burnished his conservationist bona fides by championing a major legislative package protecting public lands, despite some stiff opposition from members of his own caucus.  The bill, which was approved by the Senate in June and will likely pass the House this month, would funnel billions of dollars to fixing rails and other infrastructure in national parks and on other recreational areas in Western states like Colorado, where the outdoors tourism industry has boomed in recent years.  Trump has promised to sign the bill — and has boosted Gardner's role in shepherding the legislation through the Senate.  I am calling on Congress to send me a Bill that fully and permanently funds the LWCF and restores our National Parks. When I sign it into law, it will be HISTORIC for our beautiful public lands. ALL thanks to @SenCoryGardner and @SteveDaines, two GREAT Conservative Leaders! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2020  Hickenlooper's own environmental record was dinged up in the race against Romanoff.  Romanoff put climate change at the center of his campaign pitch. One of his first ads was a four-minute video featuring a Colorado family sheltering in a bunker during a 127-degree day “in the not-so-distant future.”  The former state legislator had called for replacing all gas and coal in power generation by 2035, as well as having all new vehicles be electric. Romanoff also wanted to place a price on carbon emissions, end new construction of fossil fuel infrastructure and ban the use of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to extract gas and oil.  Former Colorado House speaker Andrew Romanoff in 2014. (David Zalubowski/AP)  He also endorsed the Green New Deal, a broad proposal put forward last year by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) which calls for drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions and guaranteeing a job for every American.  That stance earned Romanoff the support of the Sunrise Movement, a youth-led activist group that popularized the idea of the Green New Deal. Nick Tuta, a volunteer and spokesman for Sunrise's Colorado branch, said the state's Senate seat is the “best opportunity” to push the Democratic Party to the left on climate.  But other influential environmental groups, including the political arms of the League of Conservation Voters and the Sierra Club, decided to sit out the Colorado primary.  Hickenlooper tried to find a middle road between Romanoff and Gardner on environmental issues.  Hickenlooper, similarly, supports charging a fee on carbon emissions and electrifying the nation's fleet of automobiles. And while he was governor, Colorado became the first state to adopt rules limiting methane emissions from oil and gas operations. Colorado's regulation, put in place in 2014, served as a model for the federal government's own methane rules.  But the former governor worked as geologist for an oil and gas company before entering politics — and as a politician has supported fracking, a major economic activity in Colorado.  Hickenlooper's target for net-zero emissions is no later than 2050 — a decade after Romanoff's goal. Eliminating the nation's contributions to climate change by either date would be a herculean task.  And he has also been dismissive of the Green New Deal. “We should not try to tackle climate change by guaranteeing every American a government job,” he told an audience in California last year while running for president. He ended his White House bid last August after his campaign failed to gain traction.  At the same, he has responded to Gardner's public lands bill by noting the senator voted to confirm a former coal lobbyist, Andrew Wheeler, to run the Environmental Protection Agency and has not backed another bill to protect approximately 400,000 acres of public land in Colorado.  Sen. Gardner voted to put a coal lobbyist in charge of the EPA.    He's refused to support the #COREact which would protect 400,000 acres of CO public lands.    And he voted to cut #LWCF funding by 90 percent.    Only President Trump would praise a record like this. https://t.co/tBesf6uTcW — John Hickenlooper (@Hickenlooper) March 3, 2020  Welcome to The Energy 202, our must-read tipsheet on energy and the environment.  Power plays  Investigators fault the Commerce Department for leading a “flawed process” during the “Sharpiegate" controversy.  In a long-anticipated report, the Commerce Department inspector general blamed the department in pressuring one of its agencies, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, “to issue an unsigned statement backing Trump’s claims that Hurricane Dorian would severely impact Alabama,” my colleagues Andrew Freedman and Jason Samenow report.  President Trump holds up an altered forecast map as he talks with reporters after receiving a briefing on Hurricane Dorian in September. (Evan Vucci/AP)  The watchdog agency concluded that the decision to echo Trump's false claims about Hurricane Dorian went against the guidance of its own forecasters and the interests of NOAA and the National Weather Service, which it oversees.  “The Sept. 6, 2019, NOAA statement in question backed up repeated, inaccurate claims by Trump regarding the hurricane’s threat to Alabama and contradicted public statements and weather forecasts issued by NOAA’s National Weather Service forecast office in Birmingham, Ala. The inspector general’s examination of ‘the circumstances surrounding the statement’ was launched on Sept. 7, 2019, amid fierce public blowback against NOAA.”  Only a summary of Inspector General Peggy Gustafson's work was posted online. The full report has not been published.  A Senate bill would diminish Energy Department control over nuclear weapons.  The latest version of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2021 includes a provision that would strip the department of much of its budgeting authority over nuclear arms — and give it instead to the Pentagon, my colleague Will Englund reports.  Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette. (Lynne Sladky/AP)  The move would undermine the long-standing practice of civilians — and not military leaders — having control over the nation's most powerful weapons. Preserving that separation was one of the reasons the Energy Department was created in 1977.  The provision, added by the Senate Armed Services Committee, drew quick criticism from senators of both parties, including Sens. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.). The move drew also objections from Trump's energy secretary, Dan Brouillette.  The office of the panel's chairman, Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.), did not respond to requests.  Coronavirus fallout  The EPA will no longer have relaxed pollution reporting requirements for companies by the end of August.  “We picked the August 31 date as the termination date to give folks — the regulatory community and the states — a heads up to allow them to prepare for the sunsetting of the policy,” Susan Bodine, assistant administrator for enforcement and compliance assurance at the EPA, told McClatchy in an interview.  The headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)  The temporary enforcement policy — put in place for companies struggling to respond to the coronavirus pandemic — drew sharp criticism from Democratic lawmakers and the agency’s inspector general amid the outbreak of a virus that attacks the respiratory system.
Trump news live: Latest 2020 election updates as US posts record daily coronavirus rise|https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/trump-news-live-us-coronavirus-cases-deaths-2020-election-latest-polls-a9599331.html|Donald Trump drew on his dark, campaign-style vision of a divided America at his Fourth of July fireworks show at Mount Rushmore, held in front of hundreds of people packed together and not wearing masks as the nation's coronavirus crisis reaches nearly 3 million cases and more than 128,00 deaths.  The US reported more than 50,000 cases on Friday for a third straight-day, with spikes in nearly every state as the US entered the three-day holiday weekend.  In his remarks, he promised to defend monuments and condemned what he called "far-left fascism" among protesters calling for the removal of statues honouring slaveholders and Confederates.  Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines  Roughly 100 protesters were met by National Guard troops who fired pepper spray at several people and arrested a handful of others.  The president promised to build a National Garden of American Heroes – "a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans who ever lived" – including a complicated and likely controversial selection of American figures, from Amelia Earhart and Harriet Tubman to Antonin Scalia and Billy Graham.  The president also argued that Black Lives Matter protesters angered by the police killings of George Floyd and other black Americans would have wiped out the city of Minneapolis had he not sent in the National Guard to stop the demonstrations, while he picked fights with CNN anchor Chris Cuomo and Dr Anthony Fauci as he seeks to distract from the resurgent coronavirus.  Dr Fauci warned on Thursday that the US is “not going in the right direction” after the country reported 55,000 new cases of Covid-19 in a day, beating the world record for a daily rise set by Brazil on 19 June. Arizona, California, Florida and Texas alone accounted for 25,000 of that total as assistant health secretary Brett Giroir cautioned: “We are not flattening the curve right now. The curve is still going up.”  Follow live coverage as it happened  Please allow a moment for our liveblog to load
New York Times: New US memo highlights gaps in intelligence reports on Russian bounties|https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/03/politics/new-intelligence-memo-gaps-russian-bounties-american-soldiers/index.html|(CNN) A recent memo from the council helmed by the nation's intelligence chief confirmed accounts that Russia offered bounties to Taliban fighters to kill US troops in Afghanistan -- but cast the reports as incomplete and potentially dubious, The New York Times reported Friday.  Citing three officials, the paper reported that the National Intelligence Council, led by Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe , wrote the two-and-a-half page memo, which was dated on Wednesday -- just days after the Times first reported last week on intelligence officials' knowledge of the bounties and the White House's subsequent inaction.  The officials told the Times that the timing and highlights of the memo, which is said to contain no new details, imply that it aimed to fortify the administration's efforts to defend staying silent to the news. Multiple former national security officials told the paper that the memo's depiction suggested that it may have been swayed by political intentions.  The memo states that the CIA and the National Counterterrorism Center had evaluated with "medium confidence" that a unit of the Russian military intelligence agency GRU offered the bounties, two of the officials briefed on the memo's contents told the paper.  But the National Security Agency and other members of the intelligence community determined that they did not have adequate evidence to reach that level of certainty and thus held less confidence in the determination, the two officials told the paper. A third official familiar with the memo told the Times that the CIA's level of confidence in the conclusion was higher than that of other agencies.  Read More
Opinion | Nancy Pelosi calls out Trump’s con|https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/07/03/pelosi-calls-out-con/|At her news conference on the day before the start of the Fourth of July holiday weekend, Pelosi all but declared Trump AWOL from his post as commander in chief. Careful not to tie her remarks to the Gang of Eight briefing, she asserted, “Of course, the president should have been briefed. This is of the highest priority. Force protection, a threat to our men and women in uniform.” She continued, “It was in his PDB, presidential daily brief, but it wasn’t verbally [relayed],” adding: “That doesn’t mean that he shouldn’t have read that.”  Pelosi has been part of intelligence briefings as a member of the Gang of Eight and before that on the House Intelligence Committee for decades. She was, therefore, well-equipped to call out Trump’s latest excuse for not having acted on intelligence or been (orally) briefed: "You got the con. The White House put on a con that if you don’t have 100 percent consensus on intelligence, it shouldn’t rise to a certain level,” she told reporters. That, however, is just poppycock. She correctly pointed out that if you needed to have 100 percent certainty before alerting the president to a threat to the troops, you would never look into anything.  AD  AD  She is right, of course. We have seen a familiar pattern of deflection and misdirection on this scandal. First, Trump was not “briefed.” (Well, he was briefed through the PDB.) But it was a hoax. (Then why was it in the PDB?) The upshot is that Trump, to this day, has taken no action in defense of our troops. At a time when the Kremlin was placing bounties on the heads of our servicemen and women, he was calling for Russia to be let into the Group of Seven.  Pelosi reiterated her observation that “all roads lead to Putin” and then did what Trump has not — called for a muscular response to Russian aggression. “When Congress in a bipartisan way passed sanctions on Russia, the administration told us to take out the sanctions on the [Russian military intelligence agency, the] GRU — the intelligence, as well as the defense, sectors of Russia,” she recollected. “Those should definitely still be there. They were there in a bipartisan way. It’s just administration wanted them out. I don’t know why. So we should have those in there."  Frankly, no one outside the Trump cult could reasonably believe the president’s advisers and the president himself were intent on prioritizing the defense of U.S. troops. Trump has made perfectly clear that he wants a chummy relationship with Russian dictator Vladimir Putin. Is it any wonder that his advisers slipped intelligence of the bounties into the PDB (which they surely know Trump does not read) and that no actions were taken? The Kremlin — not to mention the rest of the world — knows a foe of the United States can target our troops without adverse consequence. If that is not dereliction of duty for the commander in chief, I don’t know what is.
Russian bounty scandal: Is President Trump a traitor?|https://www.latimes.com/opinion/story/2020-07-03/russian-bounty-scandal-raises-a-terrible-question-is-trump-a-traitor|To the editor: We confront a moral and constitutional crisis unlike anything I have seen in my 73 years. President Trump’s actions with regard to Russia are exponentially more dangerous than Watergate or President Bill Clinton lying about sex.  We must believe our own eyes, and they are showing us that our president is a traitor to the fundamental principles of American democracy and may even be a traitor to the country. He has facilitated an ongoing attack on our republic, most recently by doing nothing in response to the horrifying scheme by Russia to have American soldiers killed in Afghanistan.  There is a principle in science that when confronted with compelling facts, the simplest explanation is probably the correct one. In the law there is a similar doctrine: “The thing speaks for itself.” We must admit that the simplest explanation for Trump’s conduct is the correct one.  Trump’s actions speak for themselves: He could be one of the greatest traitors in the history of our country.  Advertisement  Kenneth Dusick, Los Angeles  ..  To the editor: Republicans, please don’t be silent to the families who lost loved ones in Afghanistan recently. Please don’t wander hunched over with a downtrodden face as you try to hide your shameful reticence from reporters. Do not seal your lips out of fealty to the president when American lives are at stake.  Why not investigate and explore, demand to discover the truth, and check out the possibility that this could be much worse than Benghazi?  Advertisement  Your silence is so far from golden. Let’s see what you are made of. We are waiting. We are watching. The clock is quickly ticking toward Nov. 3. We will see what kind of men or women you are and cast our votes for only the honorable and decent among you.  Roz Levine, Los Angeles  ..  To the editor: How long has Trump known about Russia putting bounties on American soldiers? Has he given a discernible response? Or will his “pattern of submissive behavior” toward Vladimir Putin continue when American soldiers are killed by militants paid by Russia?  Advertisement  Americans have to face the horrifying possibility that our leader is being blackmailed by Russia. Every interaction Trump has with Putin is shaded by the Helsinki tableau: the smug, grinning Putin, and a shaken Trump.  The only factor possibly holding back Putin from displaying outright dominance at this point is the impending U.S. election. It is not too excessive to say that the balance of international power will be tipped by the results of our election.  Don’t forget to vote.  Jacqueline Kerr, Los Feliz  Advertisement  ..  To the editor: I guess everybody has forgotten that the U.S. secretly provided about $3 billion to aid the mujahideen (or freedom fighters) in Afghanistan for their war against the Soviets in the 1980s. When the Reagan administration sent Stinger missile launchers, the occupation of Afghanistan became a deadly quagmire, with Soviet helicopters being destroyed at a crippling rate.  All in all, thousands of Soviet soldiers were killed with the aid of U.S. arms. And yes, you can look at that as payback for Soviet aid to North Vietnam.  By the end of 1993, Afghanistan was basically a destroyed country, and the Taliban and Osama bin Laden filled the vacuum. Just think: Had we stayed out of this, perhaps Russian soldiers would still be in Afghanistan and there would have been no 9/11.  Advertisement  Josef Colman, Santa Monica
Helsinki on the Potomac: Even with Americans endangered, Trump sees no evil from Russia|https://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/ny-edit-russia-taliban-20200703-ctovrhxcwngfnaqjoc5y3q4uwy-story.html|Most disturbingly, even with the info now public, the president is not inclined to do or say anything to hold Russia accountable. Whatever the explanation for his earlier ignorance, why is there no denunciation now? Because this is the same president who, out of perverse fondness for Vladimir Putin, voices skepticism that Russia interfered in 2016. Who in Helsinki said he believed Putin over U.S. intelligence services.
Op-Ed: Who China's Xi Jinping really wants to win the 2020 U.S. election|https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/27/op-ed-china-gains-political-influence-in-strategic-outpost-kiribati.html|Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visits a commercial street in Xi'an, capital of northwest China's Shaanxi Province, April 22, 2020. Ju Peng | Xinhua News Agency | Getty Images  China is creating new facts on the ground, expanding its influence across the world – from the Balkans to the South China Sea – as the United States wrestles with the myriad distractions of coronavirus, recession, racial upheavals and presidential elections. China also this week created a new fact in the Pacific Ocean. Voters in the Republic of Kiribati, who gained their independence from the United Kingdom in 1979, solidly returned President Taneti Maamau to power. That rewarded his campaign built on embracing Beijing and discarding diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Captain James Cook, who "discovered" Kiribati's Christmas Island on Christmas Eve of 1777, would be rolling in his watery grave. The atoll he claimed for the British could some day host port facilities for Chinese tourists or, more to the point, warships. Seen in isolation, it's easy to understand why this exotic story got so little attention this week. However, Kiribati has a deeper meaning, and it's not only for its geographic setting 1,300 miles south of Honolulu, as the only country in the world whose pieces are scattered in all four hemispheres and across 1.3 million square miles. The election was one more of many signs (see my column of May 2nd) that China sees the current global situation, accelerated by COVID-19's outsized blow to the United States, as a unique moment to gain global influence at Washington's expense. Kiribati helps that effort in two respects: narrowing the number of countries in the world recognizing Taiwan to just 15 and expanding its presence in waters dominated by U.S. Pacific Command. And that brings me to the stale debate in Washington over whether President Xi Jinping, the most dominant Chinese leader since Mao Tse Tung, wants President Donald Trump or former Vice President Joe Biden to win November's presidential elections. And might tilt everything from trade decisions to intelligence operations to extract his preferred outcome.  Xi's power preference  The reality is that President Xi has already decided who he prefers to be the victor in our 2020 elections – and that would be China. We're in the systemic struggle of our age, and the U.S. democratic system is facing one of the great stress tests of its history without any certainty about the outcome. The situation is bound to get messier through the elections and, perhaps, far beyond. The United States won its global role on the attractiveness of its values and the effectiveness of its institutions, charms that were tarnished even before the country's worst-in-class performance in the face of coronavirus. Deaths this week in the U.S. hit a world record 124,468, and new covid-19 cases passed the 40,000 mark for the first time, leaving allies around the world bewildered about their favorite superpower. Chinese leaders are telling their global partners this confirms further that the United States is a declining leader with a faltering model. Beijing underscores the value of their brand of leadership, which focuses more on being at the center of global influence that on being atop the heap. Over time, the United States may well self-correct, as it has done so often in history. It's also true that China continues to hurt its global cause through overreach, unfair trade practices and diplomatic bullying. This week also produced new signs that Europe has grown warier of the Chinese embrace. "We continue to have an unbalanced trade and investment relationship," said Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission president, after a summit with Chinese leaders. She pressed Beijing to deliver on last year's commitments on market access and to close negotiations on an investment agreement. At the same time, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo surprised on Thursday his European partners by accepting their proposal, which he had seemed cool on earlier, to launch a new U.S.-EU dialogue on China. Josep Borrell, the EU's de facto foreign minister, raised the idea earlier in the week but soft-pedaled it when it initially seemed the U.S. lacked interest. The U.S. also recently stepped up military reassurance efforts on behalf of its Asian allies. This month, three U.S. carriers navigated the Philippine Sea and farther east, bringing with them a flock of fighter jets. Congress is working on a Pacific Deterrence Initiative, a special budget that would spend nearly $7 billion over two years aimed, among other outcomes, at bolstering naval forces in the Western Pacific.  Seizing opportunities
McGrath wins Kentucky Senate primary|https://www.politico.com/news/2020/06/30/kentucky-results-345354|Booker’s rise began late last month as he took part in protests against police brutality in his hometown of Louisville. Major leaders from the party’s left wing, from Sens. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, endorsed him in the closing weeks. He already had support from state legislators and other Kentucky Democrats, but more in-state supporters jumped off the sidelines down the stretch.  But McGrath, a former Marine fighter pilot who was backed by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, had a superior organization and massive fundraising advantage that proved too much to overcome. She raised more than $40 million ahead of the primary, significantly outraising Booker and even McConnell. She spent more than $12 million on TV in the race, compared to less than $2 million from Booker, and her campaign won significant margins in the state’s rural counties outside Louisville and Lexington.  Most of her spending focused on McConnell, as McGrath essentially ran a general-election campaign against him for months, even after Booker joined the race in January. She focused some of her late advertising more directly to the state’s Democrats, a concession to the rapidly tightening race, and outspent Booker heavily in the final week. Even then, her advertising leaned on many Democrats’ belief that her campaign is best suited to challenge McConnell this fall.  Morning Score Your guide to the permanent campaign — weekday mornings, in your inbox. Sign Up Loading By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  "I'm humbled that Kentucky Democrats have nominated me to take on Mitch McConnell in the general election and can't wait to get started in sending him into retirement and finally draining the toxic Washington political swamp that he built," McGrath said in a statement Tuesday.  She also praised Booker for his campaign, saying there was no doubt he "tapped into and amplified the energy and anger of so many who are fed-up with the status quo and are rightfully demanding long overdue action and accountability from our government and institutions." McGrath called for the party to unify in the effort to defeat McConnell, and promised a dialogue with those voters who didn't support her.  Booker conceded the race in a lengthy statement Tuesday evening — and though he didn't explicitly endorse McGrath, he called on his supporters to dedicate themselves to beating McConnell. He also said there were still positives to take away from his campaign.  “We went from being down 50 points in the polls to falling just short of a tie. While I’m disappointed, I’m so proud of us, and I’m still hopeful," Booker said. "Hundreds of thousands of Kentuckians left behind by Mitch McConnell came together to demand a better future and a better government."  Kate Cooksey, a spokeswoman for McConnell's campaign, welcomed McGrath to the general election by calling her extreme, and saying she is "lucky to have gotten out of the primary with a victory, but her reputation sustained significant damage all across Kentucky."  Kentucky is a challenging state for Democrats to compete in a federal general election. McConnell, who is seeking a sixth term, is unpopular in polling of his state’s voters, and some public surveys have shown the race to be competitive. But President Donald Trump is favored to carry the state overwhelmingly in the fall, and Democrats would need to convince huge numbers of voters to split their tickets.  Still, it is the first time McConnell will be on the ballot since becoming majority leader, and McGrath’s fundraising ability gives Democrats hope of making the contest expensive and potentially competitive. A super PAC aligned with McConnell has already booked nearly $11 million in ads to run this fall, an investment that came alongside more likely battleground states like Arizona, North Carolina and Maine.
Why Amy McGrath could cost Republicans the U.S. Senate, even if she loses to Mitch McConnell|https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-senate-mcconnell-analysi/why-amy-mcgrath-could-cost-republicans-the-u-s-senate-even-if-she-loses-to-mitch-mcconnell-idUSKBN2426QQ?il=0|(Reuters) - Kentucky Democrat Amy McGrath’s long-shot bid to unseat U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell could help undermine Republican efforts to retain their majority in the chamber, even if the former Marine Corps fighter pilot fails to beat McConnell in November.  FILE PHOTO: U.S. Democratic congressional candidate Amy McGrath speaks during a campaign event in Versailles, Kentucky, U.S. October, 18, 2018 REUTERS/Bryan Woolston  Political analysts see the chances of Democrats winning enough seats to seize control of the Senate in the Nov. 3 U.S. election rising, with President Donald Trump’s sliding poll numbers endangering a growing number of Republican incumbents.  McConnell, a tenacious political survivor, has endured election challenges in the past and is still expected to defeat McGrath, who on Tuesday emerged as her party’s nominee to challenge him.  But McGrath has raised more campaign funds than McConnell and poses a threat. That means the Republican Party and Republican-aligned political action committees may be forced to spend more to bolster McConnell’s re-election bid than they may have planned, potentially limiting resources that could go to help incumbents in eight other states who are seen as vulnerable, analysts and officials from both parties said.  “It’s a very precarious situation for Republicans. There are multiple paths to a Democratic majority, and those increase with the president’s national polling numbers on the decline,” said Jessica Taylor, a political analyst who tracks Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  Republicans hold 53 of the Senate’s 100 seats. With Democrats controlling the House of Representatives, Republican control of the Senate has been crucial in buttressing Trump’s presidency including keeping him in power after a February impeachment trial.  Twenty-three Republican incumbents are seeking re-election this year, compared to 12 Democratic incumbents. Senators serve six-term terms.  One vulnerable Republican is Thom Tillis, a North Carolina freshman who polls show trailing Democratic challenger Cal Cunningham in a Senate race that Republican officials expect to shatter national spending records.  “This is going to be one of those bloodbath elections and money is going to play a big role. If resources are being unexpectedly diverted to other races, that could be a problem for Tillis,” a North Carolina Republican operative said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  More than $100 million in television ads have already been booked for the fall in North Carolina, according to a North Carolina Republican official familiar with the spending plans.  McGrath has become a magnet for contributions from Democratic donors and activists who desperately want to oust McConnell, according to analysts and party officials. Her campaign raised more than $41 million as of June 3 - the latest available figure - compared to $27 million for McConnell.  Republicans said McGrath was forced to divert much of her war chest to fend off a powerful primary challenge from Democrat Charles Booker, a Black state legislator.  “No candidate has spent so much to achieve so little,” McConnell campaign press secretary Katharine Cooksey said of McGrath.  POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES  McConnell has received no funds from official Republican Party campaign committees. But political action committees - entities that raise and distribute campaign funds - aligned with Senate Republicans and other party figures have more than doubled their contributions to McConnell this year, compared to his last re-election bid in 2014.  McConnell has received about $385,000 from such Republican PACs as of June 3, compared with $178,000 over the same period in 2014, according to Federal Election Commission records. The current figure is approaching 2014’s $404,000 total, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign spending.  The Senate Leadership Fund, a McConnell-aligned PAC, has set aside $10.8 million for fall campaign television ads backing him. Larger sums have been reserved for only two other Republican senators, including Tillis, who can expect $21.8 million.  Republicans face a deepening challenge nationwide as Trump loses support among suburban voters, older voters and other key voting blocs, according to opinion polls, during the tumult of the coronavirus pandemic and protests over racism and police brutality.  Democrats would need a net gain of four Republican-held seats to take control of the Senate if Trump wins re-election - or three if Democratic candidate Joe Biden defeats Trump.  Slideshow (3 Images)  Republican seats in the Senate are considered vulnerable in at least eight states: Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas Maine, Montana and North Carolina. Democrats are at risk in at least two: Alabama and Michigan.  For example, Republican Senator Joni Ernst narrowly trails her Democratic challenger, Theresa Greenfield, in Iowa, a state Trump carried by 9 percentage points in 2016. Ernst, who has $12.6 million set aside for her at the Senate Leadership Fund, privately told supporters that Trump’s unpopularity with suburban women is weighing her down, two sources familiar with the conversations said.  “If they are spending a ton in Iowa close to the election,” said one Iowa GOP operative, “then it’s real bad for every Republican.”
McConnell on police reform: Dems don't want a bill they want an issue|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6XRhtVC0S8|
PODCAST | WDRB's Lawrence Smith on Amy McGrath's primary win and uphill battle against Mitch McConnell|https://www.wdrb.com/in-depth/podcast-wdrbs-lawrence-smith-on-amy-mcgraths-primary-win-and-uphill-battle-against-mitch-mcconnell/article_4ecf62a8-bbc5-11ea-a448-7fb8768a3d13.html|Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!  Your notification has been saved.  There was a problem saving your notification.  {{description}}  Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.
A closer look at Kentucky primary numbers|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RxG8W9zjIXA|
Splitting 5-4, Supreme Court Grants Alabama’s Request to Restore Voting Restrictions|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/supreme-court-alabama-voting-restrictions.html|But Mr. Merrill did not relax two of the usual requirements for absentee voting: submission of a copy of a photo ID with a voter’s application for a ballot and submission of an affidavit signed by a notary public or two adult witnesses with the ballot itself.  Four voters and several groups sued to challenge those restrictions, saying they placed an unlawful burden on the right to vote in light of the health crisis. Making a copy of a piece of identification, for instance, may be difficult and dangerous during the pandemic, they said.  Alabama officials have dismissed that concern. Writing on Twitter, Mr. Merrill said: “When I come to your house and show you how to use your printer I can also show you how to tie your shoes and to tie your tie. I could also go with you to Walmart or Kinko’s and make sure that you know how to get a copy of your ID made while you’re buying cigarettes or alcohol.”  Judge Abdul K. Kallon, of the Federal District Court in Birmingham, blocked election officials in Mobile, Jefferson, and Lee Counties from enforcing the ID requirement for voters who are disabled or 65 or older. He also blocked the notary or witness requirement for voters who submit a sworn statement that they are at heightened medical risk.  Judge Kallon also allowed — but did not require — officials to employ curbside voting.  A unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, refused to block Judge Kallon’s decision while an appeal moved forward.
Supreme court blocks curbside voting ruling|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cN7Ym6NPNyE|
Supreme Court blocks curbside voting in Alabama ahead of Jeff Sessions runoff|https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/supreme-court/supreme-court-blocks-curbside-voting-alabama-ahead-jeff-sessions-runoff-n1232863|Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.  MONTGOMERY, Ala. — The U.S. Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision Thursday blocked a lower court ruling allowing curbside voting in Alabama and waiving some absentee ballot requirements during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Conservative justices granted Alabama’s request to stay a federal judge’s order that would allow local officials to offer curbside voting in the July runoff and loosen absentee ballot requirements in three of the state’s large counties. The order will remain stayed while the court decides whether to hear Alabama’s appeal.  Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall said he was pleased the court acted quickly so that Alabama voting rules remain in place for the July 14 GOP runoff in which former Attorney General Jeff Sessions is competing against ex-Auburn University head football coach Tommy Tuberville for the Senate.  Trump, who has endorsed Tuberville, has repeatedly acted Sessions on Twitter. The winner of the Republican faceoff will take on Democrat Sen. Doug Jones in November. He is regarded as a vulnerable incumbent.  Let our news meet your inbox. The news and stories that matters, delivered weekday mornings. This site is protected by recaptcha  “Alabama is again able to enforce laws that help ensure the fairness and integrity of our elections,” the Republican said.  The court rulings stem from a lawsuit filed by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Alabama Disabilities Advocacy Program. A group of voters had sought more voting options because of health concerns.  U.S. District Judge Abdul K. Kallon last month issued a preliminary injunction after finding that Alabama’s election rules will cause sick or elderly voters to “likely face a painful and difficult choice between exercising their fundamental right to vote and safeguarding their health, which could prevent them from casting a vote in upcoming elections.”  Kallon said Alabama can’t prevent local election officials from offering curbside voting at in-person polling locations in the July 14 runoff. Kallon also ruled Alabama can’t require some absentee ballot voters in three counties to submit photocopies of their identification and witness signatures if it is dangerous for them to get out during the pandemic because of their age and underlying health conditions.  The three counties are where plaintiffs in the lawsuit live.  Alabama appealed the decision. The state argued that it would be confusing to change absentee ballot rules in three of Alabama’s 67 counties and that curbside voting would be a major change done right before the election.  The state also argued that Alabama’s rules are needed to combat voter fraud and are not unreasonable.  “But this dichotomy between voting and safety is false, even during COVID-19. The individual plaintiffs in this case regularly see at least one other person. Can they really not find a safe way to have a second person watch them sign a piece of paper?” lawyers for the state wrote in their petition to the Supreme Court.  The court’s five conservative justices ruled in favor of Alabama while the four more liberal justices indicated they would deny the state’s application for a stay. The justices did not offer an explanation for their decision in the brief order handed down late Thursday.  “Unfortunately, this means that Alabama voters who are at greater risk of severe illness or death from COVID-19 will be required to risk their health and violate CDC recommendations in order to vote on July 14,” Deuel Ross, senior counsel at the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc., said in a statement.  The plaintiffs said they were disappointed by the decision, and will continue to pursue the ongoing litigation in federal court in Alabama.
The Supreme Court just handed down some truly awful news for voting rights|https://www.vox.com/2020/7/3/21312553/supreme-court-voting-rights-alabama-texas-democratic-party-abbott-merrill-people-first|The Supreme Court handed down two brief, unsigned orders on Friday concerning what restrictions states may place on absentee voting during the coronavirus pandemic. Though neither order is a final judgment — one grants a temporary stay of a lower court decision, the other denies expedited review of an important voting rights case — the practical impact of both orders is that voters in Alabama and Texas will find it harder to cast a ballot during the pandemic.  The Texas order is particularly ominous because it suggests that Texas will be able to apply election rules that ensure older, Republican-leaning voters have an easy time casting a ballot — while younger voters could be forced to risk infection in order to vote.  The Alabama case  The Alabama case is Merrill v. People First of Alabama. Alabama law allows anyone to cast an absentee ballot during the pandemic, but it also imposes certain restrictions on those voters. Among other things, absentee voters must provide a copy of their photo ID, and their ballot must be signed by either two witnesses or one notary public.  A lower court blocked these restrictions “for voters who cannot safely obtain the signatures of two witnesses or a notary public due to the COVID-19 pandemic” and “for absentee voters who are over the age of 65 or disabled and who cannot safely obtain a copy of their photo ID due to the COVID-19 pandemic.” But the Supreme Court stayed that lower court decision — ensuring that, at the very least, the restrictions will be in place for Alabama’s July 14 runoff primary election.  Notably, the Supreme Court’s order in Merrill was joined only by the Court’s five Republicans. All four Democratic appointees dissented. Neither side explained why they voted the way they did.  The Texas case  The Texas case, meanwhile, is Texas Democratic Party v. Abbott, and the stakes in that case are simply enormous.  Texas law permits voters over the age of 65 to request absentee ballots without difficulty. But most voters under the age of 65 are not allowed to vote absentee. During a pandemic election, that means older voters — a demographic that has historically favored Republicans over Democrats — will have a fairly easy time participating in the November election. But younger voters will likely have to risk infection at an in-person polling site if they wish to cast a ballot.  This arrangement is difficult to square with the 26th Amendment, which provides that “the right of citizens of the United States, who are 18 years of age or older, to vote, shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any state on account of age.”  The Court’s order in Texas Democratic Party is subtle, but it most likely means that Texas will be able to deny or abridge the right to vote on account of age, at least during the November election.  Last month, the conservative United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit blocked a trial judge’s order that would have allowed younger Texans to vote absentee. Although this Fifth Circuit order is not the appeals court’s last word on this case, it is quite unlikely that the plaintiffs in Texas Democratic Party will prevail before the Fifth Circuit, which is among the most conservative courts in the country.  So those plaintiffs asked the Supreme Court to hear their case on an expedited basis. On Friday, the Supreme Court denied that request. As a practical matter, writes SCOTUSBlog’s Amy Howe, this refusal to expedite the Texas Democratic Party case “all but eliminated the prospect that the justices will weigh in on the merits of that dispute before the 2020 election in November.”  Thus, even if the Supreme Court ultimately does decide that Texas’s age discrimination violates the 26th Amendment, that decision will almost certainly come too late to benefit anyone in November.  The Supreme Court’s orders in Merrill and Texas Democratic Party fit a pattern. Last April, in Republican National Committee v. Democratic National Committee, the Supreme Court granted a request from the Republican Party, and ordered all ballots mailed after a certain date in Wisconsin’s April elections to be tossed out — a decision that, in practice, likely forced thousands of voters to risk infection in order to cast an in-person ballot.  The Court’s decision in Republican National Committee was also 5-4, with all five Republican justices in the majority and all four Democrats in dissent.  In recent weeks, the Court has handed down a handful of left-leaning decisions — including a narrow decision temporarily preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and an even narrower decision striking down a Louisiana anti-abortion law.  But on the most important question in a democracy — whether citizens are empowered to choose their own leaders — this Supreme Court remains unsympathetic to parties seeking to protect the right to vote, despite the greatest public health crisis in more than a century.  Support Vox’s explanatory journalism  Every day at Vox, we aim to answer your most important questions and provide you, and our audience around the world, with information that has the power to save lives. Our mission has never been more vital than it is in this moment: to empower you through understanding. Vox’s work is reaching more people than ever, but our distinctive brand of explanatory journalism takes resources — particularly during a pandemic and an economic downturn. Your financial contribution will not constitute a donation, but it will enable our staff to continue to offer free articles, videos, and podcasts at the quality and volume that this moment requires. Please consider making a contribution to Vox today.
Supreme Court Blocks Curbside Voting in Alabama|https://www.necn.com/news/politics/decision-2020/supreme-court-blocks-curbside-voting-in-alabama/2293665/|The U.S. Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision Thursday blocked a lower court ruling allowing curbside voting in Alabama and waiving some absentee ballot requirements during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Conservative justices granted Alabama’s request to stay a federal judge’s order that would allow local officials to offer curbside voting in the July runoff and loosen absentee ballot requirements in three of the state’s large counties. The order will remain stayed while the court decides whether to hear Alabama’s appeal.  Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall said he was pleased the court acted quickly so that Alabama voting rules remain in place for the July 14 runoff.  “Alabama is again able to enforce laws that help ensure the fairness and integrity of our elections," the Republican said.  The court rulings stem from a lawsuit filed by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Alabama Disabilities Advocacy Program. A group of voters had sought more voting options because of health concerns.  U.S. District Judge Abdul K. Kallon last month issued a preliminary injunction after finding that Alabama’s election rules will cause sick or elderly voters to “likely face a painful and difficult choice between exercising their fundamental right to vote and safeguarding their health, which could prevent them from casting a vote in upcoming elections.”  Kallon said Alabama can’t prevent local election officials from offering curbside voting at in-person polling locations in the July 14 runoff. Kallon also ruled Alabama can’t require some absentee ballot voters in three counties to submit photocopies of their identification and witness signatures if it is dangerous for them to get out during the pandemic because of their age and underlying health conditions.  The three counties are where plaintiffs in the lawsuit live.  Alabama appealed the decision. The state argued that it would be confusing to change absentee ballot rules in three of Alabama’s 67 counties and that curbside voting would be a major change done right before the election.  The state also argued that Alabama’s rules are needed to combat voter fraud and are not unreasonable.  “But this dichotomy between voting and safety is false, even during COVID-19. The individual plaintiffs in this case regularly see at least one other person. Can they really not find a safe way to have a second person watch them sign a piece of paper?” lawyers for the state wrote in their petition to the Supreme Court.  The court’s five conservative justices ruled in favor of Alabama while the four more liberal justices indicated they would deny the state’s application for a stay. The justices did not offer an explanation for their decision in the brief order handed down late Thursday.  “Unfortunately, this means that Alabama voters who are at greater risk of severe illness or death from COVID-19 will be required to risk their health and violate CDC recommendations in order to vote on July 14," Deuel Ross, senior counsel at the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc., said in a statement.  The plaintiffs said they were disappointed by the decision, and will continue to pursue the ongoing litigation in federal court in Alabama.
'A play for the base': why Republicans are set for Florida convention amid pandemic|https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jun/28/republican-democratic-conventions-2020-us-election-florida|Democrats announced a mostly-virtual national convention but Republicans are attempting not to sacrifice spectacle in the toss-up state  'A play for the base': why Republicans are set for Florida convention amid pandemic  Every four years, Democrats and Republicans stage their national conventions, huge primetime events at which presidential nominations are formally bestowed amid cascades of balloons, in front of cheering crowds.  On 20 August, a little more than two months before election day, Joe Biden will duly accept the Democratic nomination in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. A week later, Donald Trump will be crowned by Republicans in Jacksonville, Florida.  Trump mocks 'basement' strategy but prudent approach pays off for Biden Read more  Thanks to the coronavirus pandemic, almost everything else will not proceed as usual. But the two parties will follow radically different paths.  This week, as the US death toll passed 124,000 and cases surged in many states, Democrats announced a slimmed-down convention, mostly online and with physical events staged under guidance from public health experts. Biden’s speech, for example, has been moved to a smaller venue.  Republicans have also made big changes, but for a different reason. Despite the pandemic racing through America, they are attempting not to sacrifice spectacle in the name of public safety.  The Republican convention was set for Charlotte, North Carolina. But Roy Cooper, the Democratic governor, would not allow what is in effect a huge campaign rally – crowds packed tight in a sports arena – in the shadow of Covid-19.  As a result, party business will be conducted in Charlotte with public health restrictions but Jacksonville will now host made-for-TV events not subject to mandatory social distancing, mask-wearing or other measures.  In Wisconsin, Democrats are working with Tony Evers, a governor from their own party who has sought to prioritize the fight against the virus. In Florida, the governor, Ron DeSantis, is a prominent Trump supporter who has championed economic reopening.  Tara Setmayer, a Republican operative and Trump critic, told the Guardian: “The simple version of why lots of people will be brought into Jacksonville in the middle of a pandemic is this Republican need to appear committed to reopening and not to mandate safety measures.  Donald Trump and the Republican party seem not to give a damn about the health and safety of the people involved Tara Setmayer  “Everything that the Republican party does now is a play for the base. There’s no other logical explanation because the Democrats have had enough sense to make the proper adjustments and go virtual, to adhere to the government’s own standards for social distancing and things like that.  “There’s a lot involved logistically to control a national convention. It costs tens of millions of dollars. You bring in multiple police agencies to coordinate. It’s a Herculean effort.”  “So the Democrats understood it’s not worth risking the health and exposure of all these people and the logistical nightmare you would create. Whereas Donald Trump and the Republican party seem not to give a damn about the health and safety of the people involved. And that is incredibly self-centered and politically craven.”  But it may be politically necessary for Trump. Heralding the decision to go to Jacksonville, the Republican National Committee chair, Ronna McDaniel, cited the economic benefit to the city but also pointed to the hard political realities that govern any choice of convention location.  Florida, McDaniel said, “is crucial in the path for victory in 2020”.  ‘Florida’s a must-win’  Four months out from the election, the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia rates four states as toss-ups between Biden and Trump: Arizona, North Carolina, Florida and Wisconsin.  Trump won them all in 2016 and in all likelihood will have to do so again. Much can change but by the UVA count, excluding the toss-ups, Biden has 268 likely electoral college votes to 204 for Trump. A candidate needs 270 to win.  “Florida’s a must-win but so’s North Carolina,” said Larry Sabato, director of the UVA Center for Politics. “Lose either, and Trump’s probably lost the election.”  Facebook Twitter Pinterest Donald and Melania Trump celebrate at the Republican national convention with Mike and Karen Pence in Cleveland, Ohio, on 21 July 2016. Photograph: Mike Segar/Reuters  The Democrats’ choice of venue was governed by similar political concerns, but their outlook now looks much brighter.  “Wisconsin looked like the pivot state,” Sabato said. “There’s always one. If it goes one way then Trump wins, if it goes the other way, then Biden wins. So that’s why the Democrats put it in Wisconsin. It was one of the great shocks of 2016. They figured they could get Michigan back without doing a convention there and I think they were right, and the same with Pennsylvania.  “Wisconsin was the tough one – they thought.”  As it turns out, as June rolls into July polling averages put Biden ahead nationally and in most battleground states. Realclearpolitics.com, for example, has him up 49% to 41% in Wisconsin and 50% to 44% in Florida. North Carolina is closer, Trump trailing by one point. But where it offers 15 electoral votes, Florida has 29.  In Trump’s camp, one poll may cause special concern. A poll of Jacksonville residents by the University of North Florida found that “58% strongly or somewhat opposed” hosting the Republican convention and 71% were “very or somewhat concerned … about Covid-19 transmission”.  Such concern can hit turnout. Last weekend, Trump returned to the campaign trail in Tulsa, Oklahoma, a city and state badly hit by Covid-19. The rally attracted a small crowd and staffers tested positive.  The Florida poll also found 61% of respondents were concerned about protests and social unrest. Amid national protests over police brutality and structural racism, Trump’s speech in Jacksonville on 27 August will fall on the 60th anniversary of Ax Handle Saturday, the day in 1960 when a white mob attacked civil rights activists in the Florida city.  Setmayer and other observers point to the insensitivity of such timing. However, Dr Michael Binder of the University of North Florida noted that conventions are by their nature “polarizing events” and said that “under the backdrop of a global pandemic that appears to have come more fervently to Florida, the opposition to this event being hosted locally seems much more concerning”.  The two would-be presidents are not the only people who will be watching the polls into August. Sabato said polling in North Carolina showed support for Cooper in his confrontation with Trump. Setmayer pointed to a fall in support for Jacksonville’s mayor, Lenny Curry, since the Republicans announced they were coming to town. DeSantis is widely said to be eyeing a presidential run in four years’ time.  ‘A packed arena’  Last month, Politico reported on how Trump attended George HW Bush’s nomination in New Orleans in 1988, saw how Republicans lionized him as, as Sabato put it, “a hero of history”, and told friends: “This is what I want.”  A 2000 repeat in 2020? Concerns mount over ‘integrity’ of US election Read more  In Jacksonville, he will demand such a spectacle. McDaniel, the party chair, has promised “a packed arena” and all the trimmings: balloons showering from the ceiling, bands, chants of the candidate’s name and the familiar mantra: “Four more years!”  As public health officials continue to warn against large gatherings, particularly indoors, McDaniel has also promised “to make sure the convention-goers are safe”.  But case numbers continue to surge in Florida. On Friday, DeSantis both announced a record daily caseload and finally ordered a pause in reopening. It is hard to see the situation being much better by August.  “I just really don’t see the upside in the long term for Donald Trump,” Setmayer said. “He’ll personally get his adulation fix, but that’s all it’ll be.”
Born on the dark fringes of the internet, QAnon is now infiltrating mainstream American life and politics|https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/03/us/what-is-qanon-trnd/index.html|(CNN) Since its origin three years ago, QAnon has festered in the darker corners of the internet. Now the group's followers, who call themselves "believers," have found a niche on social media and within the Republican Party.  QAnon began as a single conspiracy theory. But its followers now act more like a virtual cult, largely adoring and believing whatever disinformation the conspiracy community spins up.  Its main conspiracy theories claim dozens of politicians and A-list celebrities work in tandem with governments around the globe to engage in child sex abuse. Followers also believe there is a "deep state" effort to annihilate President Donald Trump.  But followers of the group have expanded from those beliefs and now allege baseless theories surrounding mass shootings and elections. Followers have falsely claimed that 5G cellular networks are spreading the coronavirus  There's no evidence that any of what QAnon claims is factual. ​  Followers make unfounded claims and then amplify them with doctored or out-of-context evidence posted on social media to support the allegations.  The anarchical group's birth, and its continued seepage into mainstream American life, comes on the coattails of the Russian disinformation campaign that targeted US elections in 2016. ​  While the Russian campaign had an apparent objective -- influence voters to elect Trump -- QAnon is decentralized, having no clear objective aside from its popular slogan, "Question everything."  Anyone can create a conspiracy, offer evidence to support it and tag it with QAnon hashtags to spread it. But no one is held responsible for the trail of chaos and disinformation it leaves behind.  How QAnon began  QAnon's origins are emblematic of what it has evolved into: An unfounded, out-of-context claim made to support an allegation, which is easily discredited.  It all goes back to a cryptic, anonymous post on October 28, 2017 on 4chan, an online message board that frequently features extremist and bigoted content. The individual, which followers would later call "Q," claimed that Hillary Clinton was going to be arrested.  There was no arrest.  But similar posts pushing baseless claims of arrests and "deep state" action kept appearing on 4chan. It's unclear who was behind the posts, or if the ones that followed were posted by the same person -- 4chan posts are anonymous.  Believers claim that their "Q" is so knowledgeable because of their claim to security clearance within the US government.  QAnon supporters have likened the initial posts, and subsequent ones, to Hansel and Gretel-like breadcrumbs, or "drops," as they call them now.  Since then, the group has injected itself into the mainstream by creating communities on Reddit and finding footholds on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. In a series of videos posted online in 2018, QAnon targeted Cemex , a Mexican cement company, because it reportedly owned an abandoned camp in Arizona, which conspiracy theorists erroneously believe is the location of a human trafficking site.  At the time, CNN reached out to Cemex and representatives for Tom Hanks and Oprah Winfrey but never received a response.  Believers claimed on several social media sites that a Boca Raton, Florida, house belonging to Oprah was seized by police in a child sex trafficking sting and roped off with red tape.  Another person on Twitter made a post, which garnered thousands of shares, falsely claiming that Tom Hanks, who tested positive for coronavirus in Australia, was actually arrested for pedophilia. The post said that other A-list celebrities would soon be arrested.  QAnon conspiracy theories have been further elevated through high-profile figures and organizations. In March 2018, before being fired from her sitcom, actress Roseanne Barr tweeted about the pedophilia conspiracy theory, alluding to a baseless claim that President Trump "has broken up trafficking rings in high places everywhere." Barr later deleted the tweet.  The GOP and QAnon  QAnon nearly reached the main stage of the Republican Party at President Trump's July 31, 2018 rally in Tampa, Florida , where signs reading "We are Q" and "Q" appeared near the front of the crowd during the President's speech.  Four months later, Vice President Pence posted -- and then deleted -- a photo on Twitter with a law enforcement officer wearing a QAnon patch on his uniform.  And in July 2019 the White House invited a QAnon supporter to an event billed by the White House as a "social media summit" with conservative influencers.  Today the GOP has three candidates that have been sympathetic or supportive of the group and could see themselves in Congress in January: Jo Rae Perkins , a candidate for a US Senate seat in Oregon; Marjorie Taylor Greene , a Congressional candidate for Georgia's 14th district seat; and Lauren Boebert , who beat a Trump-backed, five-term incumbent during primary elections to become a candidate for Colorado's 3rd district. ​  "Everything I heard of Q -- I hope that this is real because it only means America is getting stronger and better, and people are returning to conservative values, and that's what I am for," Boebert, the front runner for the House seat, said in a May interview.  Her campaign manager, Sherronna Bishop, told CNN in a statement that despite those comments, Bishop "does not follow QAnon."  CNN has reached out to the Republican National Committee and President Trump's campaign for comment on QAnon and the GOP candidates' comments on the group but has not heard back.  CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story misstated the date of a Trump rally in Tampa, Florida. It was held July 31, 2018.
Colorado Congressional Candidate Lauren Boebert Travels To Mt. Rushmore|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PMV7mc95MEc|
QAnon: Why rabid pro-Trump conspiracy theories keep gaining steam|https://www.aol.com/article/finance/2020/07/03/qanon-why-rabid-pro-trump-conspiracy-theories-keep-gaining-steam/24544748/|A conspiratorial pro-Trump subculture known as QAnon is lurking in mainstream American society while spreading baseless accusations against prominent people in politics, business, and culture.  The internet-fueled movement began gaining traction with some of the president’s supporters back in 2017 and has slowly grown to the point where QAnon-supporting politicians are being elected. More generally, the FBI describes “conspiracy theory-driven domestic extremists” as a growing threat.  And while President Trump has not outwardly supported QAnon, he has retweeted its conspiracy theories on multiple occasions (while his son, Eric, posted and then deleted a QAnon graphic on Instagram ahead of Trump’s campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma). Trump’s supporters, though, have been more vocal about it.  Eric Trump posting a QAnon graphic on Instagram pic.twitter.com/4U7QX1MIlr — Jared Holt (@jaredlholt) June 20, 2020  “Trump supporters’ fixation on QAnon shows that they really don’t feel like they’re winning, even as they hold the reins of power,” Paul Musgrave, an assistant professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, wrote in the Washington Post. “The mystique of QAnon is yet another example of how Trumpism is built on the politics of resentment.”  Conspiracy theories ‘fill an important psychological role for many people’  QAnon began with “Q,” a persona claiming to be someone within the government, promising to expose how dark forces are working against Trump and his administration. The “Anon” part comes from Q’s readers, who decipher Q’s “clues” on message boards and build outlandish interpretations. Posters named “Q” have been instigating unfounded theories on social networks including 4Chan, 8Chan, and Reddit.  “[Conspiracy theories] like this fill an important psychological role for many people,” Thomas J. Wood, an assistant professor of Political Science at Ohio State University who has studied how conspiracy theories gain public support, told Yahoo Finance. “It tends to sway those who have chronic anxiety and feel disaffected by politics by providing a symbolic and intuitive story for them.”  Previous research, summarized by the New York Times, has found that people who believe in conspiracy theories “are more likely to be cynical about the world in general and politics in particular. Conspiracy theories also seem to be more compelling to those with low self-worth, especially with regard to their sense of agency in the world at large. Conspiracy theories appear to be a way of reacting to uncertainty and powerlessness.”  The movement has reached the point where politicians openly supporting QAnon are being elected: Lauren Boebert won the Republican congressional primary for her Colorado district despite her opponent being an incumbent backed by Trump. Boebert has spoken positively of QAnon, stating: “I hope that this is real because it only means America is getting stronger and better, and people are returning to conservative values, and that’s what I am for. ... If this is real, then it could be really great for our country.”  Another notable candidate is Marjorie Taylor Greene, who will face John Cowan in a primary runoff for a Georgia congressional seat on Aug. 11. Back in 2017, Green described “Q” as “a patriot.”  “He is someone that very much loves his country, and he’s on the same page as us, and he is very pro-Trump,” Greene said. “I’m very excited about that now there’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take this global cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles out, and I think we have the president to do it.”  ‘A collective populous moving further away from critical thinking’  Much of the traction stems from a distrust in the media and the government. QAnon appears to be an evolution of Pizzagate, the internet conspiracy theory that led one man to bring a gun to a pizza shop because he thought there were child slaves in the basement.  Wood said there’s always a chance of unfounded allegations like these picking up steam and spilling into the mainstream, which happened with Pizzagate or Obama birtherism (i.e., the notion that the former president was born outside of the U.S.).  Social media plays a major role in it as well. A viral conspiracy theory about Justin Bieber being a victim of Pizzagate went viral recently on TikTok, a video app popular among young adults. And private Facebook groups are reportedly becoming a new haven for QAnon supporters to share their conspiracy theories with each other.  Based on Wood’s research, groups like QAnon rely on the attention they receive from the public, particularly the media: “For the theory to cross over and gain mainstream currency, it can’t just exist in the pockets of a chatroom,” he said.  ‘It will continue to happen’  The conditions that created QAnon will continue to exist for the foreseeable future.  “We live in a free society and in that, people are allowed to offer their opinions, regardless of whether or not they’re music to our ears,” Ryan McCormick, co-founder and media relations specialist of Goldman McCormick Public Relations, told Yahoo Finance. “It’s a part of our culture and it will continue to happen.”  Consequently, various parts of American society — including businesses, social media platforms, the voting public, and the press — may find themselves seeing internet-fueled conspiracy campaigns like QAnon going into midterm elections and beyond.  Adriana is a reporter and editor covering politics and health care policy for Yahoo Finance. Follow her on Twitter @adrianambells.  More from :  Pence's Arizona trip was delayed after Secret Service agents contracted virus: reports  Trump visits Mount Rushmore amid controversy, coronavirus concerns  Eric Trump deletes tweet after getting a savage reminder about his father
MMA and QAnon: How fake news and conspiracies permeated the octagon|https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2020/jul/03/ufc-qanon-mma-far-right-fake-news-conspiracies|Last month, the Ultimate Fighting Championship, the leading promotion in mixed martial arts, found itself involved in a far-right conspiracy scandal after one of its officials was spotted wearing QAnon markings on their official attire.  Don House, a long-time UFC cutman and friend of the organization’s president, Dana White, appeared on the UFC on ESPN 11 broadcast wearing a Q symbol on his chest and a WWG1WGA marking on the left arm of his shirt, which stands for “Where we go one we go all” and is a popular slogan amongst QAnon conspiracy theorists and supporters. The markings were visible on his clothing during the main event between Curtis Blaydes and Alexander Volkov.  QAnon is a far-right conspiracy theory which propagates the idea that the alleged “deep state” is waging an invisible war against US president Donald Trump and his supporters through a secret plot. The theory, which was birthed out of an anonymous 4chan post by a person identifying as “Q Clearance Patriot” – an alleged government official – is rooted in the belief that many liberal Hollywood actors, Democratic politicians and other high-ranking officials are part of an global cabal of pedophiles running an international child sex trafficking ring, and that Trump is trying to dismantle the elitist group.  Despite the lack of evidence supporting their baseless and unhinged claims, the fringe internet conspiracy theory has continued to gain supporters. In 2019, QAnon was labelled a “potential domestic terrorism threat” by the Federal Bureau of Investigations due to its ability to “lead individual extremists to carry out criminal or violent acts”.  House’s decision to display symbols in support of a domestic terrorism threat was lauded by QAnon supporters on the internet and criticized by pundits, which led to the UFC launching an investigation into House’s actions. The organization claimed to have been unaware of House’s decision to wear the markings, and stated that the cutman had not sought permission to wear the symbols.  “This was a violation of our staff event outfitting policy and the matter will be thoroughly investigated,” the UFC said in a statement to ESPN.  House later admitted that he regretted his decision to wear the markings because of the embarrassment it caused White, whom he called a “friend of mine”. However, he also defended QAnon by agreeing with some of the theory’s key principles, including their supposed aim to expose a child sex trafficking ring. “They’re trying to expose that, “ House told MMAFighting.com.  The patches worn by House are not the first time that QAnon has permeated the MMA space. Earlier in June, Albuquerque city councillor Pat Davis tweeted a photo of a flag with the letter Q perched on the roof of the Jackson Wink Academy, a renowned MMA gym that is home to past and present UFC champions such as Holly Holm and Jon Jones. The academy released a statement in which it claimed that the flag was planted by an “unknown individual” and was removed “as soon as it came to our attention”.  Prominent UFC fighters have also been guilty of using QAnon-related hashtags on social media, including UFC welterweight Jorge Masvidal, who used a QAnon hashtag when he posted a false quote by Kurt Cobain in reference to Donald Trump. The president previously attended one of Masvidal’s fights at UFC 244 and praised the fighter on social media after Masvidal called Trump a “bad motherfucker”.  Given the trend of prominent QAnon support emerging within the MMA landscape, there appears to be an overlap between a subset of MMA fans and the fringe conspiracy. According to a VOX analysis of the QAnon subreddit /r/greatawakening, many of the casual posters also frequent other subreddits such MMA, fitness and Joe Rogan. They are also avid posters in a variety of Trump-related subreddits.  Yet it is the support for Trump that helps explain why QAnon and other conspiracy theories appear to thrive within combat sports. The UFC brass is unabashedly pro-Trump and has used the promotion as a platform for the president’s ideology, even going so far as to produce a propaganda documentary about Trump called ‘Combatant in Chief’. White, who spoke at the 2016 Republican national convention, has been unapologetic about his support for Trump and has even claimed he doesn’t care if that support alienates fans.  “I don’t give a shit,” White said. “If you don’t like me because I’m friends with this guy, that’s your problem not mine.”  The UFC’s public support for Trump may have cost the promotion a portion of its progressive and ethnically diverse fanbase, but it has helped secure its conservative fandom, many of whom voted for Trump or have right-leaning tendencies. Since the 2016 election, the UFC has even seen the rise of fighters sporting MAGA gimmicks such as Colby Covington, who even visited the Oval Office when he was interim champion. And as more conservative fans flock to the sport they view as MAGA-friendly, there has been a noticeable rise in fake news, fringe conspiracy theories and right-wing extremism.  Former UFC champion Tito Ortiz – a vocal Trump supporter – has flooded his social media timelines with unhinged conspiracy theories, including his most recent claim that George Floyd’s killing at the hands of a white Minneapolis police officer was a false flag and political stunt aimed to cause chaos ahead of the upcoming presidential election.  UFC featherweight Bryce Mitchell – who once asked Donald Trump to call him if he “needs help whooping some politician” – believes that the coronavirus is a bioweapon “made by government” in order to “try and take our guns”.  Former UFC title challenger and Special Forces Green Beret Tim Kennedy shared an Instagram post of himself wearing a Hawaiian shirt beneath a bulletproof vest while holding a rifle. The Hawaiian shirt alludes to the Boogaloo Boys, a far-right extremist movement that is preparing for a second American civil war which they call the “boogaloo”. Participants often wear Hawaiian shirts along with military fatigues to identify themselves at protests.  Kennedy posted the aforementioned picture in June 2020 along with the caption: “Just don’t be an asshole…if you choose to be an asshole…I picked out a shirt for the occasion…”  Kennedy has since informed the Guardian that he does not support the Boogaloo movement but will continue to wear Hawaiian shirts because he enjoys them.  “I’m from California. I fucking love Hawaiian shirts. I’m not gonna let any extremist group regardless of what their affiliation is claim something that’s awesome,” Kennedy told the Guardian via email. “I also like do European swimsuit a.k.a. the speedo. If some bitch ass motherfucker says that thing is only for an alt right/left, I’ll still wear that banana hammock with pride. I don’t subscribe to any this bullshit. I just do the shit I like to do.”  There has even been a case where an MMA fighter’s photo was used to spread fake news about protestors at a Black Lives Matter event. The post, which showed a cropped version of a woman’s bruised face, claimed that the person was “beaten and raped” at a BLM protest. The photo attached to the post was actually a picture of Russian MMA fighter Anastasia Yankova following her bout at Bellator 161 in September 2016.  While MMA has long been a niche sport that attracted interesting and somewhat diverse segments of society, there has been an apparent increase in conservative fandom within the sport. As the UFC continues to develop into a safe haven for MAGA supporters to rally around Trump and his far-right ideology, MMA will continue to be soiled with conspiracy peddlers and bad faith actors who view the sport as a platform for their dangerous worldview.
South Carolina congressman Jim Clyburn: 'If Biden doesn't win, US democracy will crumble'|https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jun/28/jim-clyburn-interview-trump-biden-us-democracy|South Carolina congressman Jim Clyburn has been at the heart of some of the most pivotal political moments of 2020.  Clyburn, the African American House majority whip, was a hugely influential figure during his home state’s Democratic primary, where former vice-president Joe Biden handily won and began a dramatic campaign turnaround after Clyburn endorsed him.  Since then he’s also been an influential voice in arguing for the type of running mate Biden should pick, pushing for a black woman to be on the ticket – which would be a historic first.  Outside of the 2020 campaign, Clyburn, the highest ranking African American Democrat in House leadership, has been at the forefront over the ongoing national discussions on policing and the need for a broader overhaul of the criminal justice system. Clyburn has also joined calls to take down Confederate monuments.  In a wide ranging interview with the Guardian, Clyburn explained why he thinks the current protests on race relations are different, his thinking on Biden’s pick for a running mate, and how large reforms need to be to the policing and justice system.  Clyburn said there has been a sea change in the last few years over how the Black Lives Matter movement is regarded by Americans overall.  “I remember two, three years ago, there were people who would not allow the words ‘black lives matter’ to fall from their lips,” Clyburn said. “Today, not only are they falling from their lips but they are going out, marching in support of the concept, writing op-ed pieces, expressing their support for the concept.”  Asked if he thought the protests across the country spurred by the death of George Floyd, an African American man who died in police custody, was the root of that, Clyburn said “I think that’s correct.”  “You need this kind of energy that’s taking place in order to sustain any movement and so to see this energy is very, very welcoming,” Clyburn added.  It’s unclear what the ultimate legislative result will be from the protests and that energy.  Congress continues to debate some kind of policing reform bill. Clyburn thinks any policing overhaul will have to be big rather than incremental and it has to go beyond just specific changes to policing. Clyburn, though, has made a point of not advocating for merely defunding police departments, as some liberals have argued for.  “What I want to see us do is have a restructuring – I’ve used that word before and I’ve been mocked for using it and I will continue to use because I don’t know how you tell me that these are systemic problems and I don’t know how you’re going to solve them without restructuring the system,” Clyburn said, adding that the entire “judicial system, it’s got to be restructured”.  Clyburn recently also joined calls within his state to take down a statue of Ben Tillman, a South Carolina politician who defended lynching African Americans. Those calls have been part of a wider push to remove statues of Confederate soldiers and leaders across the country.  Throughout the 2020 campaign Clyburn has emerged as an undeniable power player.  His much sought after endorsement ahead of the South Carolina primary helped propel Biden to victory there and triggered the rapid cascade of events that made the former vice-president the presumptive Democratic nominee. Now he’s publicly argued that Biden could benefit from picking an African American running mate. Biden is reportedly considering more than a handful of African American women for the role.  “It would be a plus to have an African American woman,” Clyburn said. “And I’ll reiterate I have never said it is a must. The only must is to win this campaign. That’s a must, not just for black people but for the country. Because I really believe if Joe Biden does not win this campaign, this country’s democracy will crumble.”  Clyburn wouldn’t say whether there was any potential pick Biden should take more seriously. But he did say that he specifically suggested a few potential candidates who are being considered – former Obama administration national security adviser Susan Rice and Atlanta’s mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms among others.  “I suggested Susan. [Congresswoman] Karen Bass. [Congresswoman] Marcia Fudge, I’ve suggested a few,” Clyburn said.  The interview came ahead of a contentious Democratic primary in New York on Tuesday night in the race for House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Eliot Engel’s congressional seat. Clyburn endorsed Engel, bucking progressives who had largely lined up behind liberal challenger Jamaal Bowman – who went on to win.  Clyburn’s support for Engel underscored an ongoing fissure within the Democratic party between younger liberal Democrats pushing new candidates and older, more established party leaders who are still standing by longtime allies.  If anything though, Clyburn’s bigger concerns center on the presidential election in November. He pointed out that right around this time in 2016 polls suggested that Hillary Clinton would beat Donald Trump decisively, much like polls are suggesting Biden will fare against Trump.  “Right around this time Hillary was a foregone conclusion that she would win. But she didn’t,” Clyburn said. “Irrespective of what reasons were given, she didn’t. Those reasons still hang out there today. That is what concerns me – whether or not we have in place a process that will be fair and unfettered.”
As much of US dials back July 4 plans, Trump goes big|https://azdailysun.com/news/national/govt-and-politics/as-much-of-us-dials-back-july-4-plans-trump-goes-big/image_fbc9ae27-aed0-518d-bdf2-b6fe7424c289.html|MOUNT RUSHMORE NATIONAL MEMORIAL, S.D. (AP) — At the foot of Mount Rushmore and on the eve of Independence Day, President Donald Trump dug deeper into America's divisions by accusing protesters who have pushed for racial justice of engaging in a “merciless campaign to wipe out our history.”
Live: Utah State Primary Election Results 2020|https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/06/30/us/elections/results-utah-primary-elections.html|After stints as ambassador to China and Russia, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. wants to be governor again. But he’s in a tough primary fight with Spencer Cox, the current lieutenant governor.
Oklahoma Primary Election Results: First Congressional District|https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/06/30/us/elections/results-oklahoma-house-district-1-primary-election.html|Races for Senate in Kentucky and Governor in Utah: What to Watch For
Oklahoma Primary Election Results: Second Congressional District|https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/06/30/us/elections/results-oklahoma-house-district-2-primary-election.html|Races for Senate in Kentucky and Governor in Utah: What to Watch For
From pandering to Putin to abusing allies and ignoring his own advisers, Trump's phone calls alarm US officials|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/29/politics/trump-phone-calls-national-security-concerns/index.html|(CNN) In hundreds of highly classified phone calls with foreign heads of state, President Donald Trump was so consistently unprepared for discussion of serious issues, so often outplayed in his conversations with powerful leaders like Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Erdogan, and so abusive to leaders of America's principal allies, that the calls helped convince some senior US officials -- including his former secretaries of state and defense, two national security advisers and his longest-serving chief of staff -- that the President himself posed a danger to the national security of the United States, according to White House and intelligence officials intimately familiar with the contents of the conversations.  The calls caused former top Trump deputies -- including national security advisers H.R. McMaster and John Bolton, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, and White House chief of staff John Kelly, as well as intelligence officials -- to conclude that the President was often "delusional," as two sources put it, in his dealings with foreign leaders. The sources said there was little evidence that the President became more skillful or competent in his telephone conversations with most heads of state over time. Rather, he continued to believe that he could either charm, jawbone or bully almost any foreign leader into capitulating to his will, and often pursued goals more attuned to his own agenda than what many of his senior advisers considered the national interest.  These officials' concerns about the calls, and particularly Trump's deference to Putin , take on new resonance with reports the President may have learned in March that Russia had offered the Taliban bounties to kill US troops in Afghanistan -- and yet took no action. CNN's sources said there were calls between Putin and Trump about Trump's desire to end the American military presence in Afghanistan but they mentioned no discussion of the supposed Taliban bounties.  By far the greatest number of Trump's telephone discussions with an individual head of state were with Erdogan, who sometimes phoned the White House at least twice a week and was put through directly to the President on standing orders from Trump, according to the sources. Meanwhile, the President regularly bullied and demeaned the leaders of America's principal allies, especially two women: telling Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom she was weak and lacked courage; and telling German Chancellor Angela Merkel that she was "stupid."  Trump incessantly boasted to his fellow heads of state, including Saudi Arabia's autocratic royal heir Mohammed bin Salman and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, about his own wealth, genius, "great" accomplishments as President, and the "idiocy" of his Oval Office predecessors, according to the sources.  In his conversations with both Putin and Erdogan, Trump took special delight in trashing former Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama and suggested that dealing directly with him -- Trump -- would be far more fruitful than during previous administrations. "They didn't know BS," he said of Bush and Obama -- one of several derisive tropes the sources said he favored when discussing his predecessors with the Turkish and Russian leaders.  Then-national security adviser John Bolton listens to President Donald Trump during a meeting with Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi in April 2019.  The full, detailed picture drawn by CNN's sources of Trump's phone calls with foreign leaders is consistent with the basic tenor and some substantive elements of a limited number of calls described by former national security adviser John Bolton in his book , "The Room Where It Happened." But the calls described to CNN cover a far longer period than Bolton's tenure, are much more comprehensive — and seemingly more damning -- in their sweep.  Like Bolton, CNN's sources said that the President seemed to continually conflate his own personal interests -- especially for purposes of re-election and revenge against perceived critics and political enemies -- with the national interest.  To protect the anonymity of those describing the calls for this report, CNN will not reveal their job titles nor quote them at length directly. More than a dozen officials either listened to the President's phone calls in real time or were provided detailed summaries and rough-text recording printouts of the calls soon after their completion, CNN's sources said. The sources were interviewed by CNN repeatedly over a four-month period extending into June.  The sources did cite some instances in which they said Trump acted responsibly and in the national interest during telephone discussions with some foreign leaders. CNN reached out to Kelly, McMaster and Tillerson for comment and received no response as of Monday afternoon. Mattis did not comment.  The White House did not respond to a request for comment before this story published. After publication, White House deputy press secretary Sarah Matthews said, "President Trump is a world class negotiator who has consistently furthered America's interests on the world stage. From negotiating the phase one China deal and the USMCA to NATO allies contributing more and defeating ISIS, President Trump has shown his ability to advance America's strategic interests."  One person familiar with almost all the conversations with the leaders of Russia, Turkey, Canada, Australia and western Europe described the calls cumulatively as 'abominations' so grievous to US national security interests that if members of Congress heard from witnesses to the actual conversations or read the texts and contemporaneous notes, even many senior Republican members would no longer be able to retain confidence in the President.  Attacking key ally leaders -- especially women  The insidious effect of the conversations comes from Trump's tone, his raging outbursts at allies while fawning over authoritarian strongmen, his ignorance of history and lack of preparation as much as it does from the troubling substance, according to the sources. While in office, then- Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats expressed worry to subordinates that Trump's telephone discussions were undermining the coherent conduct of foreign relations and American objectives around the globe, one of CNN's sources said. And in recent weeks, former chief of staff Kelly has mentioned the damaging impact of the President's calls on US national security to several individuals in private.  Two sources compared many of the President's conversations with foreign leaders to Trump's recent press "briefings" on the coronavirus pandemic: free form, fact-deficient stream-of-consciousness ramblings, full of fantasy and off-the-wall pronouncements based on his intuitions, guesswork, the opinions of Fox News TV hosts and social media misinformation.  In addition to Merkel and May, the sources said, Trump regularly bullied and disparaged other leaders of the western alliance during his phone conversations -- including French President Emmanuel Macron, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison -- in the same hostile and aggressive way he discussed the coronavirus with some of America's governors.  President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron at a meeting in London in December 2019.  Next to Erdogan, no foreign leader initiated more calls with Trump than Macron, the sources said, with the French President often trying to convince Trump to change course on environmental and security policy matters -- including climate change and US withdrawal from the Iranian multilateral nuclear accord.  Macron usually got "nowhere" on substantive matters, while Trump became irritated at the French President's stream of requests and subjected him to self-serving harangues and lectures that were described by one source as personalized verbal "whippings," especially about France and other countries not meeting NATO spending targets, their liberal immigration policies or their trade imbalances with the US.  But his most vicious attacks, said the sources, were aimed at women heads of state. In conversations with both May and Merkel, the President demeaned and denigrated them in diatribes described as "near-sadistic" by one of the sources and confirmed by others. "Some of the things he said to Angela Merkel are just unbelievable: he called her 'stupid,' and accused her of being in the pocket of the Russians ... He's toughest [in the phone calls] with those he looks at as weaklings and weakest with the ones he ought to be tough with."  The calls "are so unusual," confirmed a German official, that special measures were taken in Berlin to ensure that their contents remained secret. The official described Trump's behavior with Merkel in the calls as "very aggressive" and said that the circle of German officials involved in monitoring Merkel's calls with Trump has shrunk: "It's just a small circle of people who are involved and the reason, the main reason, is that they are indeed problematic."  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Donald Trump speak during the G-7 summit in Biarritz, France, in August 2019.  Trump's conversations with May, the UK Prime Minister from 2016 to 2019, were described as "humiliating and bullying," with Trump attacking her as "a fool" and spineless in her approach to Brexit, NATO and immigration matters.  "He'd get agitated about something with Theresa May, then he'd get nasty with her on the phone call," One source said. "It's the same interaction in every setting -- coronavirus or Brexit -- with just no filter applied."  Merkel remained calm and outwardly unruffled in the face of Trump's attacks —"like water off a duck's back," in the words of one source -- and she regularly countered his bluster with recitations of fact. The German official quoted above said that during Merkel's visit to the White House two years ago, Trump displayed "very questionable behavior" that "was quite aggressive ... [T]he Chancellor indeed stayed calm, and that's what she does on the phone."  Prime Minister May, in contrast, became "flustered and nervous" in her conversations with the President. "He clearly intimidated her and meant to," said one of CNN's sources. In response to a request for comment about Trump's behavior in calls with May, the UK's Downing Street referred CNN to its website. The site lists brief descriptions of the content of some calls and avoids any mention of tone or tension. The French embassy in Washington declined to comment, while the Russian and Turkish embassies did not respond to requests for comment.  Concerns over calls with Putin and Erdogan  The calls with Putin and Erdogan were particularly egregious in terms of Trump almost never being prepared substantively and thus leaving him susceptible to being taken advantage of in various ways, according to the sources -- in part because those conversations (as with most heads of state), were almost certainly recorded by the security services and other agencies of their countries.  In his phone exchanges with Putin, the sources reported, the President talked mostly about himself, frequently in over-the-top, self-aggrandizing terms: touting his "unprecedented" success in building the US economy; asserting in derisive language how much smarter and "stronger" he is than "the imbeciles" and "weaklings" who came before him in the presidency (especially Obama); reveling in his experience running the Miss Universe Pageant in Moscow, and obsequiously courting Putin's admiration and approval. Putin "just outplays" him, said a high-level administration official -- comparing the Russian leader to a chess grandmaster and Trump to an occasional player of checkers. While Putin "destabilizes the West," said this source, the President of the United States "sits there and thinks he can build himself up enough as a businessman and tough guy that Putin will respect him." (At times, the Putin-Trump conversations sounded like "two guys in a steam bath," a source added.)  President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin arrive for a meeting in Helsinki in July 2018.  In numerous calls with Putin that were described to CNN, Trump left top national security aides and his chiefs of staff flabbergasted, less because of specific concessions he made than because of his manner -- inordinately solicitous of Putin's admiration and seemingly seeking his approval -- while usually ignoring substantive policy expertise and important matters on the standing bilateral agenda, including human rights; and an arms control agreement, which never got dealt with in a way that advanced shared Russian and American goals that both Putin and Trump professed to favor, CNN's sources said.  Throughout his presidency, Trump has touted the theme of "America First" as his north star in foreign policy, advancing the view that America's allies and adversaries have taken economic advantage of US goodwill in trade. And that America's closest allies need to increase their share of collective defense spending. He frequently justifies his seeming deference to Putin by arguing that Russia is a major world player and that it is in the United States' interest to have a constructive and friendly relationship -- requiring a reset with Moscow through his personal dialogue with Putin.  In separate interviews, two high-level administration officials familiar with most of the Trump-Putin calls said the President naively elevated Russia -- a second-rate totalitarian state with less than 4% of the world's GDP -- and its authoritarian leader almost to parity with the United States and its President by undermining the tougher, more realistic view of Russia expressed by the US Congress, American intelligence agencies and the long-standing post-war policy consensus of the US and its European allies. "He [Trump] gives away the advantage that was hard won in the Cold War," said one of the officials -- in part by "giving Putin and Russia a legitimacy they never had," the official said. "He's given Russia a lifeline -- because there is no doubt that they're a declining power ... He's playing with something he doesn't understand and he's giving them power that they would use [aggressively]."  Both officials cited Trump's decision to pull US troops out of Syria -- a move that benefited Turkey as well as Russia -- as perhaps the most grievous example. "He gave away the store," one of them said.  The frequency of the calls with Erdogan -- in which the Turkish president continually pressed Trump for policy concessions and other favors -- was especially worrisome to McMaster, Bolton and Kelly, the more so because of the ease with which Erdogan bypassed normal National Security Council protocols and procedures to reach the President, said two of the sources.  President Donald Trump and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan take part in a White House press conference in November 2019.  Erdogan became so adept at knowing when to reach the President directly that some White House aides became convinced that Turkey's security services in Washington were using Trump's schedule and whereabouts to provide Erdogan with information about when the President would be available for a call.  On some occasions Erdogan reached him on the golf course and Trump would delay play while the two spoke at length.  Two sources described the President as woefully uninformed about the history of the Syrian conflict and the Middle East generally, and said he was often caught off guard, and lacked sufficient knowledge to engage on equal terms in nuanced policy discussion with Erdogan. "Erdogan took him to the cleaners," said one of the sources.  The sources said that deleterious US policy decisions on Syria -- including the President's directive to pull US forces out of the country, which then allowed Turkey to attack Kurds who had helped the US fight ISIS and weakened NATO's role in the conflict -- were directly linked to Erdogan's ability to get his way with Trump on the phone calls.  Trump occasionally became angry at Erdogan -- sometimes because of demands that Turkey be granted preferential trade status, and because the Turkish leader would not release an imprisoned American evangelical pastor, Andrew Brunson, accused of 'aiding terrorism' in the 2016 coup that attempted to overthrow Erdogan. Brunson was eventually released in October 2018.  Despite the lack of advance notice for many of Erdogan's calls, full sets of contemporaneous notes from designated notetakers at the White House exist, as well as rough voice-generated computer texts of the conversations, the sources said.  According to one high-level source, there are also existing summaries and conversation-readouts of the President's discussions with Erdogan that might reinforce Bolton's allegations against Trump in the so-called "Halkbank case," involving a major Turkish bank with suspected ties to Erdogan and his family. That source said the matter was raised in more than one telephone conversation between Erdogan and Trump.  Bolton wrote in his book that in December 2018, at Erdogan's urging, Trump offered to interfere in an investigation by then-US Attorney for the Southern District of New York Geoffrey Berman into the Turkish bank, which was accused of violating US sanctions on Iran.  "Trump then told Erdogan he would take care of things, explaining that the Southern District prosecutors were not his people, but were Obama people, a problem that would be fixed when they were replaced by his people," Bolton wrote. Berman's office eventually brought an indictment against the bank in October 2019 for fraud, money laundering and other offenses related to participation in a multibillion-dollar scheme to evade the US sanctions on Iran. On June 20, Trump fired Berman -- whose office is also investigating Rudy Giuliani, the President's personal lawyer -- after the prosecutor refused to resign at Attorney General William Barr's direction.  Unlike Bolton, CNN's sources did not assert or suggest specifically that Trump's calls with Erdogan might have been grounds for impeachment because of possible evidence of unlawful conduct by the President. Rather, they characterized Trump's calls with heads of state in the aggregate as evidence of Trump's general "unfitness" for the presidency on grounds of temperament and incompetence, an assertion Bolton made as well in an interview to promote his book with ABC News last week: "I don't think he's fit for office. I don't think he has the competence to carry out the job," Bolton said.  Family feedback and grievances fuel Trump's approach  CNN spoke to sources familiar with the President's phone calls repeatedly over a four-month period. In their interviews, the sources took great care not to disclose specific national security information and classified details -- but rather described the broad contents of many of the calls, and the overall tenor and methodology of Trump's approach to his telephone discussions with foreign leaders.  In addition to rough, voice-generated software transcription, almost all of Trump's telephone conversations with Putin, Erdogan and leaders of the western alliance were supplemented and documented by extensive contemporaneous note-taking (and, often, summaries) prepared by Fiona Hill, deputy assistant to the President and senior NSC director for Europe and Russia until her resignation last year. Hill listened to most of the President's calls with Putin, Erdogan and the European leaders, according to her closed-door testimony before the House Intelligence Committee last November.  Elements of that testimony by Hill, if re-examined by Congressional investigators, might provide a detailed road-map of the President's extensively-documented conversations, the sources said. White House and intelligence officials familiar with the voice-generated transcriptions and underlying documents agreed that their contents could be devastating to the President's standing with members of the Congress of both parties -- and the public -- if revealed in great detail. (There is little doubt that Trump would invoke executive privilege to keep the conversations private. However, some former officials with detailed knowledge of many of the conversations might be willing to testify about them, sources said.)  In one of the earliest calls between Putin and Trump, the President's son-in-law Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were in the room to listen — joining McMaster, Tillerson, Hill, and a State Department aide to Tillerson.  "The call was all over the place," said an NSC deputy who read a detailed summary of the conversation -- with Putin speaking substantively and at length, and Trump propping himself up in short autobiographical bursts of bragging, self-congratulation and flattery toward Putin. As described to CNN, Kushner and Ivanka Trump were immediately effusive in their praise of how Trump had handled the call -- while Tillerson (who knew Putin well from his years in Russia as an oil executive), Hill and McMaster were skeptical.  Hill — author of a definitive biography of Putin -- started to explain some of the nuances she perceived from the call, according to CNN's sources — offering insight into Putin's psychology, his typical "smooth-talking" and linear approach and what the Russian leader was trying to achieve in the call. Hill was cut off by Trump, and the President continued discussing the call with Jared and Ivanka, making clear he wanted to hear the congratulatory evaluation of his daughter and her husband, rather than how Hill, Tillerson or McMaster judged the conversation.  McMaster viewed that early phone call with Putin as indicative of the conduct of the whole relationship between Russia and the Trump administration, according to the sources -- a conclusion subsequent national security advisers and chiefs of staff, and numerous high-ranking intelligence officials also reached: unlike in previous administrations, there were relatively few meaningful dealings between military and diplomatic professionals, even at the highest levels, because Trump -- distrustful of the experts and dismissive of their attempts to brief him -- conducted the relationship largely ad hoc with Putin and almost totally by himself. Ultimately, Putin and the Russians learned that "nobody has the authority to do anything" -- and the Russian leader used that insight to his advantage, as one of CNN's sources said.  The Kushners were also present for other important calls with foreign leaders and made their primacy apparent, encouraged by the President even on matters of foreign policy in which his daughter and her husband had no experience. Almost never, according to CNN's sources, would Trump read the briefing materials prepared for him by the CIA and NSC staff in advance of his calls with heads of state.  "He won't consult them, he won't even get their wisdom," said one of the sources, who cited Saudi Arabia's bin Salman as near the top of a list of leaders whom Trump "picks up and calls without anybody being prepared," a scenario that frequently confronted NSC and intelligence aides. The source added that the aides' helpless reaction "would frequently be, 'Oh my God, don't make that phone call.'"  "Trump's view is that he is a better judge of character than anyone else," said one of CNN's sources. The President consistently rejected advice from US defense, intelligence and national security principals that the Russian president be approached more firmly and with less trust. CNN's sources pointed to the most notable public example as "emblematic": Trump, standing next to the Russian President at their meeting in Helsinki, Finland, in June 2018, and saying he "didn't see any reason why" Russia would have interfered in the 2016 presidential election -- despite the findings of the entire US intelligence community that Moscow had. "President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today," Trump said.  The common, overwhelming dynamic that characterizes Trump's conversations with both authoritarian dictators and leaders of the world's greatest democracies is his consistent assertion of himself as the defining subject and subtext of the calls -- almost never the United States and its historic place and leadership in the world, according to sources intimately familiar with the calls.  In numerous calls with the leaders of the UK, France, Germany, Australia and Canada -- America's closest allies of the past 75 years, the whole postwar era -- Trump typically established a grievance almost as a default or leitmotif of the conversation, whatever the supposed agenda, according to those sources.  "Everything was always personalized, with everybody doing terrible things to rip us off — which meant ripping 'me' — Trump — off. He couldn't -- or wouldn't -- see or focus on the larger picture," said one US official.  The source cited a conspicuously demonstrable instance in which Trump resisted asking Angela Merkel (at the UK's urging) to publicly hold Russia accountable for the so-called 'Salisbury' poisonings of a former Russian spy and his daughter with Novichok, a nerve agent developed in what was then the Soviet Union, in which Putin had denied any Russian involvement despite voluminous evidence to the contrary.  "It took a lot of effort" to get Trump to bring up the subject, said one source. Instead of addressing Russia's responsibility for the poisonings and holding it to international account, Trump made the focus of the call -- in personally demeaning terms -- Germany's and Merkel's supposedly deadbeat approach to allied burden-sharing. Eventually, said the sources, as urged by his NSC staff, Trump at last addressed the matter of the poisonings, almost grudgingly.  "With almost every problem, all it takes [in his phone calls] is someone asking him to do something as President on behalf of the United States and he doesn't see it that way; he goes to being ripped off; he's not interested in cooperative issues or working on them together; instead he's deflecting things or pushing real issues off into a corner," said a US official.  "There was no sense of 'Team America' in the conversations," or of the United States as an historic force with certain democratic principles and leadership of the free world, said the official. "The opposite. It was like the United States had disappeared. It was always 'Just me'."  UPDATE: This story has been updated with comment from the White House.  CORRECTION: This story has been updated to correct the kind of poison used to attack a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury, England.
On the phone with foreign leaders, Trump is "delusional" and "uninformed": Who'd a thunk it?|https://www.salon.com/2020/07/01/on-the-phone-with-foreign-leaders-trump-is-delusional-and-uninformed-whod-a-thunk-it/|Say what you will about the Trump administration, I don't think you can accuse it of being unusually secretive. Or if it is, then Donald Trump's White House officials are extraordinarily bad at it. There are leaks from any White House but this presidency has set records. From the very beginning, the palace intrigue has been splashed all over the media, from stories about "Javanka" versus Steve Bannon to the ongoing feuds and turf wars among the staff and stories about Trump's rages, panics and weird obsessions.  Trump has complained about the leaks and even unleashed his henchmen on the case from time to time. But when you think about it, it's quite odd that he hasn't made a bigger stink. At least, it seems that way until you reflect on the persistent rumors that Trump himself is the leaker-in-chief. Since he sees the presidency as a reality show and worries more about his TV ratings than his poll numbers, it makes perfect sense. Much of the drama of this administration has been perpetrated by the man himself. If the job of president were to be a tabloid celebrity, which seems to be how Trump understands it, he'd be right that he was the greatest president ever.  Advertisement:  Unfortunately, that isn't actually the job description and whether Trump knows this or not, the long list of tell-all books and the nonstop whispers, rumors and leaks have revealed to the world just how enormously incompetent and destructive his tenure has been. The ongoing corruption is unprecedented. The results of the Mueller investigation and the impeachment hearings should have been enough to cast him out of office long before now. It is hard to imagine that anything could shock us at this late date.  And yet there is always more. As the country becomes swallowed up by a raging epidemic and the resulting economic disaster, the president has apparently decided to pretend that's no longer happening and is instead focusing intently on statues and protesters in hopes of stoking the culture war to a fever pitch. The picture he's presenting to voters right now is of a man who is sitting in a dark room fulminating on his Twitter feed as the nation collapses around him.  Meanwhile, the leaks out of the administration have turned into a tsunami and they are anything but tabloid gossip. This is serious business from the national security side of the administration. I wrote about the Russian bounty story on Monday, but it's only gotten more stunning since then, mainly because of the risk that the leakers are taking in getting this information out to the public. It is obvious that Trump was briefed in some form or another, likely more than once, that the Russian government was offering Taliban fighters money to kill American troops. Whether he ignored these reports, didn't understand them or just didn't care remains unknown. But the news has clearly shaken the firmament of the Republican establishment in a way we haven't seen before.  Advertisement:  But another story bubbled up this week that is just as striking and comes from another cascade of leaks, this time concentrated in the White House. CNN's Carl Bernstein has reported on Trump's phone calls to foreign leaders during his tenure, apparently having spoken to high-level sources who either listened in on the calls or read the subsequent readouts circulated within the administration. (Salon's Roger Sollenberger recapped the article here. )  Again, just when you thought things couldn't be worse, it turns out that that they are. It's not that Trump is substantially different when he speaks to foreign leaders than he is during his press avails or campaign rallies. It's that he isn't. According to Bernstein's reporting, the president treats foreign leaders exactly the same the way he treats the media and his domestic political rivals. He bullies the allies, kisses up to the adversaries and seems to have a particular problem with women leaders, which is entirely predictable. But calling German Chancellor Angela Merkel "stupid" to her face is odious even by his standards, especially since Merkel holds a doctorate in quantum chemistry and speaks several languages, while Trump is barely literate.  The manner in which he has conducted himself on the world stage has not been hidden, and the disdain in which he's held by other world leaders is also widely known. Remember this caught-on-tape moment:  Advertisement:  They were talking about his obscenely inappropriate announcement, or perhaps infomercial, touting his Trump National Doral golf resort as the proposed location for the 2020 G7 meeting.  Trump is obviously seen as a clown. But he's also seen as an easy mark. Bernstein writes that Trump's chiefs of staff and national security officials were "flabbergasted" by his solicitous behavior toward Russian President Vladimir Putin, and quotes two high-level officials who say that Trump achieved nothing of substance in his dealings with Putin and was so unschooled in the subject that he elevated Russia back to the level of a major power: "He's given Russia a lifeline — because there is no doubt that they're a declining power ... He's playing with something he doesn't understand and he's giving them power that they would use [aggressively]."  Advertisement:  He has been similarly taken advantage of by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, working in concert with Russia, managed to completely outmaneuver Trump on the Syrian civil war:  Two sources described the President as woefully uninformed about the history of the Syrian conflict and the Middle East generally, and said he was often caught off guard, and lacked sufficient knowledge to engage on equal terms in nuanced policy discussion with Erdogan. "Erdogan took him to the cleaners," said one of the sources.  These sources told Bernstein that Trump was often "delusional" in his dealings with foreign leaders, and did not become more "skillful or competent" as time went on. He refuses to listen to experts or really to anyone, except those, like his daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, who fawn over him, telling him how terrific he is. These high-level White House aides came to believe at some point that "the President himself posed a danger to the national security of the United States."  Well, yes.  Advertisement:  These are major leaks of highly guarded conversations, obviously by people who were close to Trump, and we rightly wonder why in the world they didn't speak out before. But consider the fact that we've had all those other shocking insider accounts of this administration and it has made no difference. Republican officials have been unmoved by all of them. In fact, major figures in the party have enabled him every step of the way, and it's not as if they didn't know what was on John Kelly's or Rex Tillerson's minds when they left the White House. And as long as a circle of political loyalists protected Trump, he obviously wasn't going to change and wasn't going to go anywhere.  So, no — it probably wouldn't have mattered if these people had stepped up and told the truth earlier. But maybe it will matter now. Trump is proving himself incapable of handling the gravest crisis of his presidency and his polling numbers are dismal. If these people who come forward now can deliver the coup de grâce, perhaps it was all for the best.
Is Trump helping Putin hold on to power?|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpmswKaYcKo|
Newt Gingrich warns US faces two 'dramatically different futures' after November election|https://www.foxnews.com/media/newt-gingrich-trump-biden-abraham-lincoln-election|Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich says in his new Fox Nation series "Crisis 2020: Newt Gingrich on America's Future." that this November's presidential election is "the most important" since 1860, when Abraham Lincoln became the first president from the Republican Party.  "The scale of the choice that the country faced in 1860 between Lincoln, who was determined to stop the spread of slavery but also determined to keep the union together, and three other candidates on the Democratic Party who were pro-slavery and who wanted to somehow appease the South ... was enormous," Gingrich explained.  GINGRICH: WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO ASK JOE BIDEN  "But it was a clear, decisive choice. And as the country was growing tired of putting up with slavery, the country would not tolerate secession. And as a result, in the end, America survived."  According to Gingrich, the United States faces a similar challenge today as it grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic and unrest paralyzing cities across the country.  "[If] we end up with a President [Joe] Biden, [House] Speaker [Nancy] Pelosi and [Senate] Majority Leader [Chuck] Schumer, in the first year or so, the amount of stuff they're going to do will amaze you," he warned.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  "By contrast, I think President Trump believes that his policies were working, that lower taxes, less regulation, greater opportunity for people to go out and start small businesses, encouraging people to go to work ... to have more of what they earn in their pocket, giving them freedom from bureaucrats and regulations ... " Gingrich said. "These are two dramatically different futures."  Gingrich explores the topic at length in his new book "Trump and the American Future: Solving the Great Problems of Our Time." An exclusive, signed Fox Nation-edition will be available for purchase here for Fox Nation subscribers only.  To view the full episode of "Crisis 2020: Newt Gingrich on America's Future." visit Fox Nation and sign up today.  FOR LIMITED TIME, RECEIVE 25 PERCENT OFF NEW PURCHASE OF A YEARLY FOX NATION SUBSCRIPTION
Think tank explains why it's 'pointless' to delist Chinese companies from U.S. stock markets|https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/03/pointless-to-delist-chinese-companies-from-us-stock-markets-piie-says.html|U.S. and China flags along Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 17, 2011. Andrew Harrer | Bloomberg | Getty Images  Delisting Chinese companies from U.S. stock exchanges is "a pointless drive" that will neither deny those firms access to American capital markets nor hurt China's growth, according to a report by think tank Peterson Institute for International Economics. U.S.-China relations are the worst they have been in decades and the stock market appeared to be one of the latest fronts where tensions between the two countries are playing out. The Senate in May passed a bill that could ban many Chinese companies from listing shares in the U.S. Last month, President Donald Trump urged regulators to find ways to tighten scrutiny on those firms. But there are several ways that Chinese companies can still get money from American investors, including through the private equity market and Hong Kong's stock market, said the PIIE report written by Nicholas Lardy and Tianlei Huang.  "The key point is that the market for capital is global. Shutting out Chinese firms from listing in the United States would not deny these firms access to US capital," the authors wrote. There are about 230 Chinese companies — totaling about $1.8 trillion in market capitalization — listed on the Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange, noted the report. It pointed out that U.S. private equity firms have been buying out those listed Chinese companies. One example is Warburg Pincus and General Atlantic, which recently led a deal to take Chinese tech firm 58.com private, said PIIE.  The key point is that the market for capital is global. Shutting out Chinese firms from listing in the United States would not deny these firms access to US capital. Peterson Institute for International Economics  In addition, an increasing number of U.S.-listed Chinese companies have sought secondary listings in Hong Kong — a financial and business center in Asia that is open to international investors, said the report. Chinese companies that have launched secondary offerings in Hong Kong include major tech players Alibaba, JD.com and NetEase. "US institutional investors and US residents who want to own shares in these companies will simply buy them in Hong Kong. Similarly, foreign investors who have invested in Chinese companies via New York listings will buy them in Hong Kong," read the report.  'Unlikely' decoupling
Trump reelection effort resumes in-person Nevada campaigning|https://magicvalley.com/news/national/govt-and-politics/trump-reelection-effort-resumes-in-person-nevada-campaigning/image_4670de43-d34f-55e6-ba4a-2da20530188b.html|LAS VEGAS (AP) — President Donald Trump's reelection campaign in Nevada has returned to in-person campaigning after moving to an online-only operation for several months because of the coronavirus.
Trump’s bond with veterans starts to fracture over Russian bounty plot|https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jul/02/trumps-bond-with-veterans-cracks-over-russian-bounty-plot|A series of military figures are lining up to condemn the president over his reported inaction after being briefed on the plot  Military veterans helped sweep Donald Trump to power in 2016, turning out in swing states like Ohio and Florida as Trump vowed to spend vast sums on defense. They have largely stuck with him ever since, even as Trump has repeatedly attacked venerated military leaders.  US setting new coronavirus case records as 'Russian bounty' row continues - live updates Read more  But as Trump grapples with the scandal over his reported inaction after being briefed on a Russian plot to pay bounties for the killing of US troops, cracks in the relationship are starting to show, and a series of military figures have lined up to condemn the president.  Even before news of Russian bounties broke, Trump’s bond with the military appeared to have become fractured. Some veterans and members of the military were horrified by Trump’s pledge to deploy active-duty military forces to anti-racism protests and demonstrations.  “Donald Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people – does not even pretend to try,” said Gen James Mattis, Trump’s former defense secretary, in an extraordinary critique of the president in early June.  “Instead he tries to divide us. We are witnessing the consequences of three years of this deliberate effort. We are witnessing the consequences of three years without mature leadership.”  Since then, things have only got worse for Trump.  The New York Times reported on Friday that the Trump administration had ignored intelligence about a Russian plot to offer bounties to Afghan militants to kill US troops. Trump has called the report – aspects of which have been confirmed by other outlets – a hoax, and insisted he was not briefed on the Russian plan.  The New York Times and CNN have since reported that the information was included in a daily intelligence briefing in February, although Trump is known to rarely read those briefings. The report of the plot, and Trump’s response, could prove to be the straw that broke the camel’s back when it comes to the armed forces. Even Republicans were shocked by the allegations.  “I’m not really sure he absorbs a lot of this stuff,” US congressman Paul Cook, a marine veteran, who represents several military installations, told Associated Press. “He’s probably thinking about the polls.”  Cook, who is retiring from Congress at the end of his current term, added: “I’m not going to be an apologist for Trump. Trump is Trump.”  As Trump’s response has oscillated between the threat not being credible and him not being made aware of it, some veterans have expressed alarm at the latter explanation – at a president who is not being given, or who is not reading, important briefing documents.  Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people – does not even pretend to try,’ said Mattis. Photograph: Richard Drew/AP  “I think it’s even worse if he didn’t know,” Mikie Sherrill, a Democratic congresswoman from New Jersey, told NJ.com.  “That speaks to a much broader crisis. What is he doing to fulfill his role as commander in chief? How is it that we were briefing allies on this and our own president didn’t know? I don’t have any theories on how that might happen. I can’t fathom it.”  Sherrill added: “If you’re going to put your life on the line for country, you want to have leadership in place that’s going to value your life, and do what they can to protect you. That’s the deal. So yeah, it’s very personal to me.”  The sentiment was echoed by Erik Hendriks, whose son was killed in an attack in Afghanistan in April 2019. The attack has been linked to the Russian bounty effort, and Hendricks questioned what Trump and the military knew about the plot in advance.  “When they sign up and they go – any soldier, a marine, navy, air force, army – I’m sure they want to believe that the government is 100% in their corner,” Hendriks told Associated Press.  “And if any of this is true, how could a soldier actually believe that anymore? How could this government let one soldier go on patrol out there knowing this is true?”  Hendriks’ mother, Felicia Arculeo, and Shawn Gregoire, the mother of Michael Isaiah Nance, who was killed in the same attack, have demanded an investigation into the Russian bounty plot and the Trump administration, as pressure grows on the president to explain what happened.  “I really want someone to get to the bottom of this,” Gregoire told CNBC. “Even if he was not briefed, what’s happening now?”  Referring to Trump, Gregoire asked: “What are you doing now, now that you know?”  Trump’s immediate response has been to post a series of distressed messages to Twitter, where – despite initially claiming he did not receive intelligence on the Russian plot – he has since attempted to dismiss the concept as a hoax.  The administration is yet to announce action against Russia, which Trump has treated favorably since his election, yet the issue is unlikely to go away. On Wednesday, Senator Bob Menendez, the ranking member of Senate foreign relations committee, proposed sanctions on Vladimir Putin and other officials for offering bounties to kill US troops.  Historically military members and veterans tend to favor Republican candidates, and Trump’s relationship with the military has so far endured his attacks on military families, and the venom Trump has directed at John McCain, even after the senator died.  Trump views US troops as disposable – the Russian bounty scandal makes that clear | Simon Tisdall Read more  That support held in 2018, even as voters flocked to Democrats, when Trump’s Republican party still won 58% of the military vote, but with just four months to go, Trump has found himself immediately targeted over the Russian scandal.  The Lincoln Project, a group of influential anti-Trump Republicans who plan to spend big money advertising against the president during the election campaign, quickly capitalized on Trump’s handling of the alleged bounty plot on Saturday.  “Putin pays the Taliban cash to slaughter our men and women in uniform, and Trump is silent, weak, controlled,” the ad says. “When Trump tells you he stands by the troops, he’s right – just not our troops.”
Supreme Court to Hear Case on Release of Full Mueller Report|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/supreme-court-mueller-report.html|Mr. Trump was impeached by the House in December and acquitted by the Senate in February. But the House told the Supreme Court that its inquiry into the president’s conduct was not over.  “The committee’s impeachment investigation related to obstruction of justice pertaining to the Russia investigation is ongoing,” the brief said.  Indeed, the brief said, new areas of inquiry have arisen, including the Justice Department’s request for leniency in the sentencing of Roger J. Stone Jr., a friend of Mr. Trump’s who was convicted of witness intimidation and perjury, and the department’s request to dismiss its case against Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, who had twice pleaded guilty to lying to investigators.  “The committee’s investigation continues today and has further developed in light of recent events,” the House’s brief said. “For example, the committee is investigating the possible exercise of improper political influence over recent decisions made in the Roger Stone and Michael Flynn prosecutions, both of which were initiated by the special counsel.”  In March, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the materials must be released to help Congress consider whether to conduct impeachment proceedings. That disclosure was authorized by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the panel ruled, which contain an exception to grand jury secrecy rules for materials to be used “preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.”  The panel was divided on other issues in the case, but it agreed that an impeachment trial was a “judicial proceeding” for purposes of the rule.  Historical practice supported the ruling, Judge Judith W. Rogers wrote for the majority.  “Federal courts have authorized the disclosure of grand jury materials to the House for use in impeachment investigations involving two presidents and three federal judges,” Judge Rogers wrote. “It is only the president’s categorical resistance and the department’s objection that is unprecedented.”
Justices keep hold on secret Russia investigation material|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ggxp3ISrzGU|
It’s Not Too Late for the Supreme Court to Decide the Mueller Grand Jury Case Correctly|https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2020/07/supreme-court-expedite-mueller-grand-jury-case.html|On Thursday, the Supreme Court granted certiorari in a blockbuster case concerning whether Congress can access the full, unredacted Mueller report. Special counsel Robert Mueller released that report a little more than a year ago, but Congress still has not seen the report in its entirety because the Department of Justice has withheld portions of the report that concern grand jury matters. Now, the Supreme Court will decide whether Congress can view those grand jury redactions, as centuries of precedent dictate, or whether the Trump administration can continue to obstruct Congress’s legitimate oversight request. But just as important as what the court decides is when it decides it. The court should expedite its hearing of the case and decide it this summer. If it doesn’t, it will in effect grant President Trump a de facto win by delaying resolution of this case until after this congressional term expires in January.  The case concerns the Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure that provides that grand jury matters must generally be kept secret. Significantly, the rule in question, known as Rule 6(e), has an important exception that allows district courts to release such materials “preliminarily to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.” Citing that rule, last August, the House requested that a district court release the portions of the Mueller Report that were redacted as grand jury materials, arguing that an impeachment proceeding is a “judicial proceeding.” It has now been close to a year since that request.  As I’ve explained before, the House’s argument is supported by the text of the Constitution and a long history of Congress receiving grand jury materials. Regarding the former, the Constitution is clear that during impeachment the House functions as a grand jury and the Senate is a tribunal that decides whether to remove officers. Indeed, Article I, Section 3 of the Constitution uses the language of judicial proceedings, stating that “the Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments,” that “no Person shall be convicted without” a two-thirds majority, and that “judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Office.” Further, Article III, Section 2 says that “the Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment; shall be by Jury,” indicating that impeachment is a type of “trial” for “crimes.”  Precedent also supports the House’s request. In 1811, a grand jury in the Mississippi Territory forwarded the House of Representatives its presentment specifying charges against federal territorial Judge Harry Toulmin, which set in motion a House impeachment inquiry. More recently, during the Nixon impeachment, a district court forwarded grand jury materials regarding the Watergate investigation to the House Judiciary Committee. And the House received grand jury materials related to the impeachment of sitting federal judges in 1987 and 2010.  Notably, the Department of Justice consented to the release of grand jury materials in these earlier cases. But consistent with its pattern of obstructing legitimate congressional oversight, the Trump administration has refused to turn over the unredacted Mueller Report to Congress and has fought that disclosure for nearly a year in federal court. The administration lost in both the D.C. district court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. On Thursday, however, the Supreme Court agreed to hear this case on the merits, setting up another blockbuster fight over whether Congress can conduct legitimate oversight of this president.  The problem with the Court’s order granting the case is that it failed to say when it would hear it. And with this case, timing is everything. Typically, when the Supreme Court grants a case, it seeks further briefing, hears oral argument, and then issues a decision months later. In this case, the ordinary procedure would mean that oral argument would probably happen this fall. And that would make a final decision on the matter unlikely before 2021.  But if the court subscribes to that ordinary procedure in this case, it would result in a de facto win for the Trump administration even if the court eventually decides that Congress is right on the law. As I’ve explained before, the House is not a continuing body, and the current Congress exists only until January 3, 2021, at which point its on-going investigations will end, its subpoenas will expire, and a new Congress will be sworn in. Thus, if the case is not argued until the fall and not decided until spring 2021, the election will be over and the 116th Congress will have long since adjourned. Congress needs to see the full Mueller Report now—during this congressional term—to decide if it contains evidence of impeachable conduct. In short, if the Supreme Court does not decide this case in a timely manner, there is a real risk that even if Congress should have access to these grand jury materials, Trump will manage to run out the clock and delay any decision until it is too late.  Thankfully, there is precedent for the court hearing important cases like this on an expedited timeline, even during its typical summer vacation. In United States v. Nixon, for example, a case about a president’s compliance with subpoenas, the court heard argument on July 8, 1974, and decided the case just two weeks later on July 24, all during its summer break. Bush v. Gore is another good example of expedition. The Supreme Court decided two cases arising out of the Florida recount in the 2000 election in roughly three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas of that year. In short, the court can act quickly when it wants to.  Finally, expedition is especially warranted here given that there is no reason this case can’t be heard on an expedited basis. Indeed, the parties have briefed this issue twice already in the lower courts, so they could easily file briefs before the Supreme Court on an expedited basis. The justices may be used to taking the summers largely off, but for an issue as important as this one—whether Congress can complete a major investigation of foreign interference in the 2016 election and President Trump’s efforts to obstruct the Mueller investigation—vacations can wait. To ensure that President Trump does not remain above the law, and that Congress can complete its legitimate investigation in a timely fashion, the court should hear this case this summer and decide it expeditiously.  For more of Slate’s news coverage, subscribe to the Political Gabfest on Apple Podcasts or listen below.
Supreme Court to hear case on redacted Mueller report|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XicddHMWE8Q|
Supreme Court Acts To Postpone More Controversies, From Mueller Report To Abortion|https://www.npr.org/2020/07/02/886644328/supreme-court-acts-to-postpone-more-controversies-from-mueller-report-to-abortio|Supreme Court Acts To Postpone More Controversies, From Mueller Report To Abortion  Enlarge this image Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed Thursday to hear arguments this fall in a case that pits the Trump administration against the House Judiciary Committee and its efforts to see redacted portions of report on Russian interference prepared by special prosecutor Robert Mueller. The decision is a significant blow to House Democrats' efforts to see the material before the November election.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia had ruled that the House Judiciary Committee was entitled to see usually secret grand jury material that was redacted by the Trump Justice Department from the Mueller report on the 2016 election when it was handed over to the committee.  At the request of the Justice Department, the high court temporarily blocked the lower court order from going into effect. And now the court has agreed to hear the case this fall, with a decision almost certain to come after the election.  The House went to court a year ago to get the grand jury material, well before the formal beginning of impeachment proceedings related to allegations that President Trump held up aid to Ukraine for political reasons.  More recently, House lawyer Douglas Letter told the justices that the inquiry did not end with the president's impeachment by the House and his acquittal by the Senate in February. The Trump administration, however, maintains that the investigation ended with the acquittal and that the House thus has no need for the material.  In a statement, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., expressed disappointment in the Supreme Court's decision to allow Trump and Attorney General William Barr to "run out the clock on all accountability."  "In every administration before this one," Nadler observed, the Department of Justice "has cooperated with the Judiciary Committee's requests for grand jury materials relating to investigations of impeachable offenses." Trump and Barr, he said, "broke from that practice."  "While I am confident their legal arguments will fail," he concluded, "it is now all the more important for the American people to hold the president accountable at the ballot box in November."  Other controversial cases  The court's action was one of several on Thursday that essentially kick the can down the road in cases involving controversial subjects.  Just days after striking down a Louisiana abortion law, the court declined to take up an Indiana law, signed by then-Gov. Mike Pence, that imposes a variety of restrictions on abortion, including requiring an ultrasound test and an 18-hour waiting period before an abortion.  The 7th Circuit Court of Appeals blocked the restrictions from going into effect, but the justices ordered the lower court judges to reconsider their decision in light of the Supreme Court's abortion decision earlier this week. The court could have simply turned aside the Indiana case, so the order suggests that Chief Justice John Roberts, who this week cast the decisive fifth vote to invalidate a Louisiana abortion law, may well be prepared to accept other kinds of restrictions, as he seemed to suggest in his solo opinion on Monday.  Lastly, on Thursday, the Supreme Court refused to expedite a petition that would have allowed the justices to hear arguments and rule prior to the November election on a petition from the Texas Democratic Party and Texas voters who want all registered voters in the state to be able to vote by mail. A federal district court judge in Texas had ordered the state to allow the mail-in ballots for all eligible voters, but that judgment was overruled by the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. The justices' refusal to consider speeding up their review process means that even if they decide to review the 5th Circuit ruling in the fall, it almost certainly won't be in time for the 2020 election cycle.
The white-collar revolt against Trump is peaking|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/30/politics/trump-2020-voter-polls/index.html|(CNN) From his open defiance of public health officials when holding rallies to his increasingly explicit embrace of White racial backlash, President Donald Trump has set a course for his reelection campaign that could produce the GOP's largest deficit in the history of modern polling among well-educated White voters.  Relative to other Republicans, Trump has underperformed with those voters since he began his first presidential campaign in 2015. And by flouting science and openly inflaming racial tensions, he is now directly centering the campaign debate on two of the principal dynamics that have alienated those voters from him. That shows signs of accelerating the shift of these voters -- who had never backed a Democratic presidential nominee in polling before 2016 -- away from the GOP to an unprecedented new level.  "I don't know who he is talking to," said Steve Schale, a veteran Florida-based Democratic consultant who now runs Unite the Country, a super PAC supporting presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden . "I guess at this point their theory of the case is this whole thing becomes a complete race to the bottom, and it becomes a low turnout [election] all about their base. If you look at suburban women, for example ... is he talking to them?"  By contrast, although the widespread concern in Black and Hispanic communities both about George Floyd's death and the disproportionate burden they have faced from the coronavirus outbreak could increase their turnout from 2016's tepid level, so far most 2020 polls have not shown Biden improving on Hillary Clinton's margin among them. Trump, meanwhile, maintains a consistent lead among White voters without college degrees, though almost all surveys show his margins with the women in that group narrowing substantially since 2016.  Polls now show not only a decisive consensus among Whites with at least a four-year college education that Trump has mishandled the coronavirus outbreak and the protests that emerged after the death of Floyd, but also that many of those voters believe Trump is exacerbating those problems through his actions. Those include his determination to hold in-person rallies and to accept the GOP nomination before a traditional convention audience this summer and his retweeting on Sunday of one video in which one of his supporters chants "White power," and another on Monday in which a White couple brandish guns at peaceful protesters  These reactions could make the 2020 election the culmination of the long-term electoral realignment that I've called the "class inversion" : the movement of well-educated White voters toward the Democrats even as blue-collar Whites drift toward the GOP, a reversal of the pattern that defined American politics for the first decades after World War II.  Reverting to 2016 themes  Trump has always tried to convince his primarily non-college and non-urban White base that he "alone" can protect them from the twin forces he portrays as threatening their interests: contemptuous elites who allegedly disdain their values and dangerous minorities and immigrants who purportedly threaten their jobs and their physical safety.  Under the enormous pressure of the coronavirus outbreak and the massive nationwide protests over racial inequity, Trump has reverted to those core themes.  Observers in both parties believe Trump sees his defiance of local officials and medical experts on the rallies as a way to reinforce his identity as an outsider who will break the rules to defend his voters' interests. But on both sides, many believe that approach carries enormous risk, particularly with older and college-educated voters, both of whom have displayed elevated levels of concern about the pandemic.  People cheer as they attend a campaign rally for President Donald Trump at the BOK Center, Saturday, June 20, in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  When Trump appeared last week in suburban Phoenix, which is suffering a fierce coronavirus surge that has pushed the total caseload as of Monday past 45,000 in Maricopa County, much of the coverage of his rally at a megachurch focused on his refusal to require masks or social distancing and the brief amount of time he devoted to the outbreak (10 minutes in a 90-minute address).  For Trump to hold an event that did not require masks "is a bit tone deaf in this part of the state," Charles Coughlin, a veteran Phoenix-based Republican consultant, told me. "It's part of [his] anti-establishment shtick, which seems to be wearing very thin in a crisis."  Democratic pollster Nick Gourevitch, whose firm the Global Strategy Group helps to conduct the daily Navigator tracking poll measuring attitudes on the pandemic and race relations, offers a similar verdict. In Navigator polling last week, he said, a solid majority of Americans opposed Trump's decision to restart his rallies, with opposition much greater among Whites with college degrees (about 3-in-5) than those without one (just under half).  In the Navigator surveys, about two-thirds of Whites with at least four-year degrees have consistently expressed concern that Trump ignores the opinions of experts, with more than half saying that pattern very seriously concerns them, he said.  Trump holding the rallies despite the advice of public health officials is "just continued fodder for ignoring expert advice, which has always been a deep concern that the voters have had," Gourevitch said. "They also play into the self-absorption aspect that he needs these rallies for himself and his own reelection rather than the good of the people."  President Donald Trump speaks during a Students for Trump event at the Dream City Church in Phoenix, Tuesday, June 23.  Those concerns are apparent in recent national and state polls, especially among the college-plus voters who often see their own success in life as based on the expertise they amassed through their education. In last week's national New York Times/Siena College poll, about 90% of voters from all races with four-year college or graduate degrees said they trusted medical scientists to provide accurate information on the virus, while only 18% of the former and 12% of the latter said they trusted Trump.  In the same poll, two-thirds of those with four-year degrees and three-fourths of those with graduate degrees said they disapproved of Trump's response to the outbreak. Likewise, in the latest national CNN poll conducted by SRSS , almost two-thirds of college-educated Whites disapproved of Trump's response to the outbreak -- while a narrow majority of Whites without degrees approved.  Republican consultant Alex Conant, the communications director for Sen. Marco Rubio's 2016 presidential campaign, says such numbers among well-educated voters (as well as comparable weakness among seniors) show the price of Trump's downplaying of the crisis and his open defiance of public health officials.  "I think it's why he's losing in all these swing states," Conant said. "I think there is a slice of his base who loves it and is wildly supportive of him throwing caution to the wind and hitting the campaign trail. And that happens to be a part of his base that he is very in tune with. But then if you're an independent voter or more traditional conservative ... this is a constant reminder of all the things you don't like about his presidency. We're a long way from talking about taxes and judges."  In a measure of Trump's challenge, even Jacksonville, the planned site of his convention acceptance speech, on Monday announced that it would require residents to wear masks in public and in indoor settings.  Similar concerns on race relations  All indications signal that Trump's response to Floyd's death and the protests it sparked is dividing the electorate along the same lines. After initially indicating some concern about Floyd's death, Trump has retreated to more familiar ground by urging greater force against violent protesters (and actually applying it before his walk to St. John's church), highlighting those racially inflammatory videos and repeatedly denouncing the Black Lives Matter movement.  In all these gestures, Trump has distantly echoed the arguments of Richard Nixon, who won the presidency in 1968 in part by promising to restore "law and order." But in the process, Trump may only demonstrate how much the country has changed since Nixon's time. Critically, this spring's polling consistently shows that Trump's belligerent message on race is alienating not only the growing number of voters of color but also the same college-educated White voters already uneasy over his handling of the coronavirus.  In that most recent national CNN survey, fully 71% of Whites with at least four-year degrees said they disapproved of Trump's handling of race relations. That was nearly as high as the percentage of non-Whites (75%) who disapproved.  national Quinnipiac University survey earlier this month found that two-thirds of college-educated Whites preferred Biden over Trump to handle race relations (while a majority of Whites without degrees favored Trump.) That was as big an advantage as Biden enjoyed on that question among Hispanics (although Black voters preferred him even more emphatically, by almost 10-to-1.)  As Matt McDermott, a Democratic pollster, has argued, those results underscore a critical shift from 1968: While most White suburbanites then believed Nixon could tamp down disorder, many of the equivalent voters today believe that Trump's confrontational and divisive language on race increases the risk of violence in their communities.  In a striking finding, Quinnipiac this month found that college-educated Whites, by 2-to-1, said that having Trump as President made them feel less safe rather than more. By comparison, Whites without degrees, by a 20-point margin, said Trump made them feel more safe.  The Navigator polls likewise found that two-thirds of college Whites expressed concern that at moments of crisis Trump makes things worse "with ... inflammatory words and actions."  The cumulative effect of these attitudes could yield an unprecedented deficit for a Republican presidential nominee among well-educated Whites. Until 2016, neither of the two longest-running data sources on voter choices had ever shown Democrats winning White voters with college degrees. That was true for the exit polls conducted for a consortium of media organizations since the 1970s, and the University of Michigan's American National Election Studies , which traces back to 1952.  In 2016, the Edison Research exit polls conducted for media organizations that included CNN showed Trump squeezing out a narrow 3-point win among college-educated Whites, while the American National Election Studies poll gave Clinton a 10-point advantage -- the first time that survey had ever shown Democrats winning among this group.  Despite the differences in the overall margins, these analyses converged around one key point: All of them showed Clinton winning among White women with a college education. Trump, in turn, led among White men with college degrees in all of them except Pew, and even that study gave Clinton only a very small lead.  But compared with any of those 2016 results, the latest national polls almost all show Trump slipping further on both fronts.  Biden's lead among college-educated White women has reached towering heights in recent polls by Quinnipiac (34 percentage points in an average they compiled for me of their May and June surveys), NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist (29 points in their June survey) and CNN (46 points in June).  Among college-educated White men, Trump trailed by 8 points in the CNN survey and 12 in the NPR/Marist Poll; the Quinnipiac average showed Biden with a 4-point advantage among them, closer to at least Pew's result in 2016.  Looking to November  All of this signals that November could produce perhaps the largest gap ever between Whites with and without college degrees. In most state and national polls, Trump consistently maintains a huge advantage of at least 2-to-1 among blue-collar White men, his best group in 2016.  And while surveys consistently show Trump's margin among blue-collar White women declining from 2016, in most polls he maintains at least some lead with them.  Anything approaching these results among well-educated Whites would intensify the big movement away from Trump and the GOP evident in the 2018 election. Before the election, Republicans controlled 43% of the House districts that have more college graduates than average. After it, they held just one-fourth.  Now, with Trump's messaging and performance on the virus and race further antagonizing those voters, the GOP faces an election that could consolidate and even extend the Democratic advance in those well-educated suburbs.  Republicans could lose further House seats in the suburbs of Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Tampa, Florida, among other places; resistance in big metro centers is the principal threat to GOP senators in Arizona, Colorado, Maine, North Carolina and maybe Iowa and Georgia; and Trump faces the prospect of even deeper decline in the largest metropolitan centers not only of traditionally blue states but also of emerging Sun Belt battlegrounds including Arizona, Georgia and Texas.  Maricopa County, centered on Phoenix, was the largest US county he won in 2016, for instance, but recent polls have shown both him and GOP Sen. Martha McSally facing double-digit deficits there now.  Trump has aimed his responses to the two major crises of 2020 almost entirely at his base of non-college, non-urban voters while slighting the concerns that well-educated metropolitan voters have consistently expressed in polls. That reflects the belief among many Republicans that his most likely path to victory is by turning out even more of his base voters than in 2016, especially in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, the three Rust Belt states that keyed his election.  GOP pollster Whit Ayres and other Republicans also say Trump might reclaim at least some ground among well-educated White votes by portraying Biden as a threat to raise their taxes and to damage the economy and their stock portfolios.  But Conant, the GOP consultant, says Trump has dug himself a large hole in the white-collar suburbs by responding so cavalierly to the two national earthquakes that have riveted their attention.  "He really doesn't want to talk about the pandemic, which is all everyone in America is thinking about," Conant said. "It's the same thing with the Black Lives Matter protests, as well. He really didn't want to talk about George Floyd, which is what everyone in America was talking about for a month. When you have that kind of disconnect between the leader and the voters you see it in the potential [electoral] wave that is now more likely than not."
House sends massive infrastructure bill to the Senate, where it has no path forward|https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/01/house-infrastructure-bill-347355|The bill, which passed 233-188, is massive in its scope, including money for such varied Democratic priorities as schools, hospitals, housing, broadband, drinking water, storm water, the energy grid and vehicle safety.  Republicans derided the bill as a Democratic wish-list that was not “designed to pass in divided government,” as Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole said during earlier consideration of the bill.  House Transportation Committee Chair Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) pointed to the alternative proposal committee Republicans had presented which, he said, included “not one word, not one sentence, not one section, not one penny” to address climate change. Transportation is the single biggest source of carbon emissions.  “What we had was a disagreement in principle, and you can't compromise on principles,” said DeFazio on the House floor Tuesday. “This bill is huge and transformative. And we need it.”  Though the bill in its current form is not likely to go anywhere as long as Republicans hold the Senate, the core of the bill — the transportation-specific functions — are virtually guaranteed to survive, although the two chambers may not agree on what the final form will be until next year at the earliest.  Most traditional infrastructure allies among industry have aligned themselves with a Senate bill that limits itself to more traditional surface transportation programs, which will form the core of the Senate's response. Shepherded by Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chair Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), the bill was approved unanimously in committee nearly a year ago.  A slew of industry groups, which customarily “applaud” and “commend” Congress for just about any action taken on infrastructure, have specifically slammed the House bill. The Chamber of Commerce said it “would move further away from real and meaningful investments in our failing infrastructure." The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials said it “unnecessarily turns back the clock” on Congress’ transportation work.  Barrasso chaired a hearing Wednesday about highway infrastructure aimed at reminding his fellow senators that they need to finish work on this bill he started. In addition to EPW’s highway portion, the Banking Committee has jurisdiction over transit, the Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over rail and safety and the Finance Committee needs to figure out how to pay for it all — a job that’s become more complex since coronavirus started limiting travel and tanking gas tax receipts.  The House bill is paid for, in part, with $145 billion of deficit spending.
House Democrats are sending dead-on-arrival bills to the Senate. There’s a good reason.|https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/07/03/this-is-why-house-democrats-send-so-many-dead-on-arrival-bills-senate/|Add those up, and Congress seems to spend a lot of time passing bills that have no chance of becoming law.  Journalists often report on such bills as the height of congressional bickering, suggesting that the parties solely want to make political points rather than legislate. But DOA bills also serve a strategic purpose: Especially in periods of divided party government, majority party leaders use them to iron out differences within the party, build political support for the party’s agenda from interest groups and activists, and get their rank and file on record in support of the measures. When their party gains control of Congress and the White House, leaders have already greased the skids to enact at least some of these pre-negotiated bills.  AD  AD  Here’s what my research shows about DOA bills.  Here’s how I did my research  In my new book “Losing to Win,” I studied when and why party leaders put messaging bills on the House and Senate floors, rather than prioritizing measures more likely to be enacted into law.  First, I defined DOA bills as proposals that Capitol Hill insiders know are intended to fail. Then I identified 226 of these measures that party leaders brought to the House or Senate floor between 2003 and 2012. I recorded various things about each bill, including when majority parties made them a priority by bringing them to a vote; their short-term political effects, such as whether interest groups supported the bills; and their long-term policy consequences, such as whether lawmakers eventually enacted them into law the next time their party won control of Congress and the White House.  AD  AD  For example, Democrats passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act as a DOA bill at the end of George W. Bush’s presidency. After the party won control of Congress and the White House in 2008, Lilly Ledbetter was one of the first bills President Barack Obama signed into law. Other important laws, such as the Democrats’ Family and Medical Leave Act and the Republican-backed Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, followed similar paths. Here’s what I learned.  Favorable electoral prospects encourage DOA legislating  Parties advance DOA measures when they think they might win control of Congress and the White House in the next election, but still need greater electoral support from interest groups and party activists.  AD  Not all DOA issues are alike  AD  Politics dictates which DOA bills leaders bring to the chamber floor for a vote. Leaders choose among issues and devote agenda space first to those measures that they believe offer the most politically potent messages.  AD  Think back over House Democrats’ agenda since they took control in 2019. Democrats passed messaging bills to tighten gun regulations, overhaul electoral rules, protect voting rights, lower the costs of prescription drugs and restructure immigration laws months before this most recent round of DOA legislation. Democrats focused on police practices only after George Floyd’s killing and the ensuing weeks of protest.  More broadly, electoral politics shapes the order in which House leaders call up bills for a vote. All else equal, leaders push more politically valuable DOA bills earlier in a congressional term. Applied to this Congress, Democrats apparently see ideas such as voting rights and lowering prescription drug costs as surer electoral bets compared with the messaging bills that are salient now, like D.C. statehood.  AD  Messaging today drives legislating tomorrow  AD  Although symbolic today, voting now improves the odds of these bills becoming law later if Democrats regain control of Congress and the White House. For example, consider what would happen if House Democrats did not vote on the Justice in Policing Act now. If Democrats waited until 2021, my research suggests the bill would have an almost zero chance of becoming law. By voting on it today, an overhaul of policing practices is almost guaranteed serious consideration in a unified Democratic Congress and has a much better chance of being enacted, even after taking into account that the new Congress could be more liberal.  Granted, even in the best circumstances, Democrats’ DOA bills face a tough road. Most DOA bills do not eventually pass; as is true with any bill, they face serious hurdles to enactment. Even with a unified Democratic government, most would still fail unless Democrats were to obliterate the Senate filibuster or make changes that could secure at least some GOP support.  AD  Even more challenging, former DOA ideas must compete with one another for time on the party’s agenda. A policing overhaul would need to compete with climate change, health care, political and voting restructuring, immigration, gun control, and dozens of other Democratic priorities. Even the most productive Congress will not be able to do it all. Three or four big ideas is very optimistic; some policies will inevitably get left out.  Still, these DOA bills offer a glimpse of a potential Democratic agenda. Other factors, such as the president’s priorities, play a role, but previously negotiated measures loom large during unified governments.  AD  And note the sorts of provisions House Democrats have agreed to this Congress. Their DOA health-care bills emphasize strengthening the Affordable Care Act, not creating a public option or a single-payer system. Similarly, Democrats’ new infrastructure plan draws from their Green New Deal. If Democrats gain control of the Senate and White House, they will probably model policy overhauls on their Justice in Policing Act.  Those messaging bills lying in the Senate graveyard today are likely to rise from the dead.
House Dems pass massive $1.5T infrastructure bill, GOP slams them for 'partisan wish list'|https://www.foxnews.com/politics/house-dems-pass-massive-1-5t-infrastructure-bill-gop-slams-them-for-partisan-wish-list|House Democrats passed a massive $1.5 trillion infrastructure bill on Wednesday, as Republicans accused them of pouring money into what one congressman called a “partisan wish list.”  The Moving Forward Act passed by a 233-188 vote that was almost entirely along party lines. It goes far beyond transportation to fund schools, health care facilities, public utilities and affordable housing, and opponents argue it focuses too much on cities and climate change.  TRUMP TOUTS NEARLY $1B IN US INFRASTRUCTURE PLANS, PROPOSALS  "Instead of seeking bipartisan solutions, this bill adds $1.5 trillion to the nation’s debt and disguises a heavy-handed and unworkable Green New Deal regime of new requirements as an ‘infrastructure bill,’” said Missouri Rep. Sam Graves, according to The Associated Press. Graves is the top Republican on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  Transportation Committee Chairman Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore., touted the bill as a “transformational investment in American infrastructure that will create millions of jobs,” but Graves said it was merely “a partisan wish list,” due to Democrats including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi throwing in too many of their own demands instead of working toward a bipartisan measure that would have a chance of success.  SEN. JOHN BARRASSO: CORONAVIRUS RECOVERY -- INFRASTRUCTURE BILLS ARE A START. WHY WON'T HOUSE DEMS HELP?  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has already derided the House bill as “pure fantasy,” according to Politico.  The only Republicans who voted in favor of the bill are Pennsylvania’s Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick and New Jersey Reps. Jeff Van Drew and Chris Smith. Two Democrats, Reps. Collin Peterson of Minnesota and Ben McAdams of Utah, voted against it.  The White House has already threatened to veto the bill, saying it would “disproportionately benefit America’s urban areas” and divert money from the Highway Trust Fund to transit and rail projects that “have seen declining market shares in recent years.”  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  The bill includes hundreds of billions of dollars earmarked for improving high-poverty schools with dangerous facilities, creating or preserving affordable homes, upgrading child care facilities, and increasing access to safe drinking water. It also aims to boost low- and zero-emission vehicles and cut carbon pollution, including $25 billion to the U.S. Postal Service for modernization that includes a fleet of electric vehicles.  A narrower infrastructure bill was approved by a Senate committee nearly a year ago but has not made progress since.  The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Green New Deal in Action|https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-green-new-deal-in-action-11593645373|House Transportation Committee Chairman Peter DeFazio hailed the $1.5 trillion infrastructure spending bill that House Democrats passed on Wednesday as “the application of the principles of the Green New Deal.” Ok, then, let’s see what’s inside the party pack.  The bill includes a feast of pork including renewable energy storage tax credits, grants for public school weatherization and solar panels in low-income housing and electric-car charging stations. It’s a subsidy-fest for any industry that calls itself green.  ...
North Korea says it has no plans for talks with US - WBOC-TV 16, Delmarvas News Leader, FOX 21 -|http://www.wboc.com/story/42325052/north-korea-says-it-has-no-plans-for-talks-with-us|By KIM TONG-HYUNG  Associated Press      SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea on Saturday reiterated it has no immediate plans to resume nuclear negotiations with the United States unless Washington discards what it describes as “hostile” polices toward Pyongyang.  The statement by North Korean First Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui came after President Donald Trump’s former national security adviser, John Bolton, told reporters in New York Thursday that Trump might seek another summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as an “October surprise” ahead of the U.S. presidential election.  South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who had lobbied hard to help set up the now-stalled negotiations between Washington and Pyongyang, also expressed hope that Trump and Kim would meet again before the election in a video conference with European leaders on Tuesday.  Kim and Trump have met three times since embarking on their high-stakes nuclear diplomacy in 2018, but negotiations have faltered since their second summit in February last year in Vietnam, where the Americans rejected North Korean demands for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capability.  Kim entered 2020 vowing to bolster his nuclear deterrent in face of “gangster-like” U.S. sanctions and pressure. Choe’s statement followed a series of similar declarations by the North that it would no longer gift Trump with high-profile meetings he could boast of as his foreign policy achievements unless it gets something substantial in return.  “Is it possible to hold dialogue or have any dealings with the U.S. which persists in the hostile policy toward the DPRK in disregard of the agreements already made at the past summit?” Choe said, referring to North Korea by its formal name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  “We do not feel any need to sit face-to-face with the U.S., as it does not consider the DPRK-U.S. dialogue as nothing more than a tool for grappling its political crisis,” she said.  Some analysts believe North Korea would avoid serious negotiations with the United States at least until the November presidential election as there’s a chance U.S. leadership could change.  Choe said the North has already established a “detailed strategic timetable” for managing what she described as U.S. threats.  “The U.S. is mistaken if it thinks things like negotiations would still work on us,” she said.  The North in recent months have also been ramping up pressure against South Korea, blowing up an inter-Korean liaison office in its territory and threatening to abandon a bilateral military agreement aimed at reducing tensions. It follows months of frustration over Seoul’s unwillingness to defy U.S.-led sanctions and restart joint economic projects that would breathe life into the North’s broken economy.  The North’s state media on Friday said that Kim, while supervising a Politburo meeting of the ruling Workers’ Party on Thursday, discussed “import issues related to the external affairs” but didn’t specify what they were.  Copyright 2020 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.
Kim Jong Un praises North Korea's COVID response|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5DIT4MfhsEE|
Kim urges North Korea to keep up virus fight and avoid 'unimaginable' crisis|https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/kim-urges-north-korea-keep-virus-fight-avoid-unimaginable-crisis-n1232859|Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.  North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un pushed for officials to remain alert to COVID-19, saying that a quick relaxation of virus prevention measures could provoke an "unimaginable and irretrievable crisis," state media reported on Friday.  In a rare comment on the coronavirus, Kim said that his country's handling of the pandemic had been a "shining success," reiterating past claims by the country that it hasn't had a single case of the virus, state media KCNA reported.  The deadly coronavirus first emerged in neighboring China before sweeping through the rest of the world. It has now infected more than 10 million people, and killed more than 500,000 worldwide, according to Johns Hopkins University data.  "We have thoroughly prevented the inroad of the malignant virus and maintained a stable anti-epidemic situation despite the worldwide health crisis, which is a shining success achieved," Kim said in a statement carried by KCNA.  Outsiders widely doubt that cut-off North Korea escaped the pandemic entirely, given its poor health infrastructure and close trade and travel ties to China.  Let our news meet your inbox. The news and stories that matters, delivered weekday mornings. This site is protected by recaptcha  Kim made the comments during a politburo meeting of the Workers' Party, and several photos of him at the meeting were also published in the North's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper — the first state media images of him in weeks.  According to state media, Kim also sharply criticized inattentiveness among officials and violations of emergency anti-virus rules. He warned that a "hasty relief of anti-epidemic measures will result in unimaginable and irretrievable crisis," for the country.  Neither Kim nor the ruling party officials at the meeting wore masks.  According to the World Health Organization, North Korea's Ministry of Public Health said the country tested 922 people for the coronavirus as of June 19 and that all of the results were negative.  Earlier this year, North Korea also shut down nearly all cross-border traffic, banned tourists and mobilized health workers to quarantine anyone with similar symptoms to the coronavirus.  Kim's recent statement suggests North Korea's border closure with China, its biggest trading partner and economic pipeline, will likely continue despite the toll that it is taking on the already heavily sanctioned economy.  People wearing masks walk in Pyongyang, North Korea on Friday. Jon Chol Jin / AP  Earlier this month, tensions escalated between the communist country and neighboring South Korea, with the North dramatically demolishing an inter-Korean liaison office in a town on the border between the two.  The North also lashed out at North Korean defectors living in the South, for sending over propaganda leaflets and balloons into the demilitarized zone.  Kim's sister and trusted aide, Kim Yo Jong — who appears to have gained prominence in recent months — also threatened unspecified military action against the South but North Korean officials later appeared to back away from military action.  The two countries are still technically at war as their 1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty.
North Korea says no need to sit down with U.S. for talks|https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-usa-southkorea/north-korea-says-no-need-to-sit-down-with-u-s-for-talks-idUSKCN24506N|SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea does not feel the need to have talks with the United States, which would be nothing more than “a political tool” for Washington, a senior North Korean diplomat said on Saturday, ahead of a U.S. envoy’s visit to South Korea.  FILE PHOTO: Hyon Song Wol, head of the North Korean Samjiyon art troupe takes a photo of Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Choe Son-Hui (C) ahead of the welcoming ceremony of North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un (not pictured) at the Presidential Palace in Hanoi, Vietnam March 1, 2019. Luong Thai Linh/Pool via REUTERS  Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui said negotiations would not work out between Washington and Pyongyang and there will be no change in North Korea’s policy.  “We do not feel any need to sit face to face with the U.S., as it does not consider the DPRK-U.S. dialogue as nothing more than a tool for grappling its political crisis,” Choe said in a statement carried by state-run KCNA news agency.  DPRK stands for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, North Korea’s formal name.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun is due to visit South Korea next week to discuss stalled talks with North Korea.  South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday that U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un should meet again before the U.S. elections in November, which would help resume the stalled nuclear negotiations.  Trump’s former national security adviser, John Bolton, told reporters in New York on Thursday that the president might seek another summit with Kim as an “October Surprise” ahead of the election.  Trump and Kim Jong Un met for the first time in 2018 in Singapore.  They met again in Vietnam in 2019, but the talks fell apart when Trump said Kim had failed to offer enough nuclear weapons or ballistic missiles in exchange for lifting international sanctions.  At their third meeting, in June 2019 at the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas, the two agreed to restart negotiations. Working-level talks between the two sides in Sweden in October were broken off.
Coronavirus in North Korea: Kim Jong-un claims 'shining success'|https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-53274152|Image copyright Getty Images Image caption State media said Kim warned against a hasty relaxing of restrictions  North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has hailed his country's "shining success" in dealing with Covid-19, according to state news agency KCNA.  Speaking at a politburo meeting, Mr Kim said the country had "prevented the inroad of the malignant virus and maintained a stable situation".  North Korea closed its borders and put thousands into isolation six months ago as the virus swept across the globe.  It claims that it has no virus cases, though analysts say this is unlikely.  Mr Kim is said to have "analysed in detail the six month-long national emergency anti-epidemic work" at a politburo meeting on Thursday. He said the success in handling the virus was "achieved by the far-sighted leadership of the Party Central Committee".  But he stressed the importance of maintaining "maximum alert without... relaxation on the anti-epidemic front", adding that the virus was still present in neighbouring countries.  "He repeatedly warned that hasty relief of anti-epidemic measures will result in unimaginable and irretrievable crisis," said the KCNA report on Friday.  Has coronavirus spread through North Korea? No-one really knows. The country has been closed off since 30 January. Very few people have made it in or out.  The International Federation of the Red Cross had volunteers in the border area working on virus prevention measures and there have been a number of unconfirmed reports of cases within the country.  But most accounts of life in the capital in recent weeks appear to show life carrying on as normal.  Whatever the reality of the situation, Pyongyang wants to appear confident that it has crushed Covid-19.  Domestically this is a strong message that the strict measures Kim Jong-un took to keep the virus at bay have worked.  The rest of the world may be in the grip of a pandemic and Mr Kim wants his people to know he has saved them from that.  But it has come at a cost. All border traffic has been cut off. That means getting essential supplies into the impoverished state have been impossible.  Diplomatic sources have told me that there are stockpiles of PPE and medical supplies, including vaccines built up at the border unable to get through.  There were numerous reports of panic-buying of international goods at department stores in Pyongyang. Shelves being stripped bare as produce is restricted.  It's also worth noting that only 12 defectors have made it to South Korea between April and June this year - the lowest number on record.  The North Korean people may not be suffering from coronavirus, but they are now even more cut off from the outside world.  Masks compulsory in North Korea  In late January, North Korea moved quickly against the virus - sealing off its borders and later quarantining hundreds of foreigners in the capital, Pyongyang.  It also put tens of thousands of its own citizens into isolation and closed schools.  North Korea has now reopened schools, but has kept a ban on public gatherings and made it compulsory for people to wear masks in public places, said a Reuters report on 1 July quoting a World Health Organization official.  The WHO also reported that the country has now tested just 922 people for the virus - all of whom have reportedly tested negative.  North Korea, which shares a long border with China, has long maintained that it has not suffered from a single case of the virus.  However, Oliver Hotham, managing editor of specialist news site NK News, told the BBC earlier this year that this was probably not true.  "It's very unlikely that it has seen no cases because it borders China and South Korea. [Especially with China], given the amount of cross border trade... I really don't see how it's possible they could have prevented it," he said.  "[But] they really did take precautions early [so] I think its possible they've prevented a full on outbreak."
US Supreme Court’s rulings on gays, immigrants benefit environmental cases|https://www.sfchronicle.com/environment/article/US-Supreme-Court-s-rulings-on-gays-immigrants-15383735.php|Hundreds of thousands of young, undocumented immigrants, and millions of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Americans, scored dramatic victories in recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings. There may have been another, less-visible winner: the environment.  According to several analysts, the court majority’s reasoning on central legal issues in both cases supports the arguments California and other states are making in major environmental cases — in particular, challenges to the Trump administration’s rollbacks of greenhouse gas regulation and of California’s vehicle-emissions and fuel-economy standards.  The justices never mentioned environmental issues in either case. But, referring to the June 19 ruling that preserved former President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, William Buzbee, an environmental law professor at Georgetown University, said, “Every challenge to every regulation will be citing this case.”  DACA allows undocumented immigrants, known as “Dreamers,” who entered the United States before age 16 to live and work legally in the U.S. for renewable two-year periods. In a 5-4 decision rejecting President Trump’s attempt to rescind the program, Chief Justice John Roberts said the administration had failed to explain its action or consider its impact on immigrants who relied on DACA.  That is the same argument California and other states have made in challenging the Trump administration’s repeal of Obama’s Clean Power Plan, a climate-change control measure that limited carbon emissions from power plants. California has also made similar arguments in attacking Trump’s override of the state’s gas-mileage and emissions standards for new motor vehicles, standards followed by a dozen other states.  In both cases, the state says the administration offered little reasoning for its rollback and never mentioned the impact on those who had relied on the former rules, such as utilities that invested huge sums in clean-energy systems and consumers who bought high-gas-mileage cars in hopes of paying less at the pump and breathing cleaner air. The DACA ruling appears to require the government to explain why the benefits of its actions outweigh the adverse impacts.  The ruling indicates that “we’re back to traditional law, where agencies have to explain the things they do and changes have to be grounded in evidence,” said Dave Owen, a professor of environmental and administrative law at UC Hastings in San Francisco.  The June 15 ruling on LGBTQ rights was focused on a single issue: whether the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which prohibited employment discrimination based on sex, applies to bias based on an employee’s sexual orientation or gender identity.  In the 6-3 decision, Justice Neil Gorsuch, a Trump appointee, said those employees could claim discrimination based on their sex because they would have been treated differently if their gender was different. Although authors of the 1964 law may not have intended it to apply that broadly, he said, they used language that, as understood today, clearly extends to sexual minorities.  California and other states are making the same type of textual argument Gorsuch used in their defense of the Clean Power Program in a federal appeals court in Washington, D.C.: that the 1970 Clean Air Act, which required the Environmental Protection Agency to curb “air pollution,” applied to greenhouse gases. The Supreme Court had generally agreed with that position in a 5-4 ruling in 2007 authorizing the EPA to regulate tailpipe emissions, but the issues in that case were somewhat different and the court’s membership has changed.  “Gorsuch just gave proponents of using the Clean Air Act for expansive regulation of greenhouse gases a potent new precedent,” UCLA law Professor Ann Carlson said in a blog posting after the recent ruling.  A week later, lawyers for 21 young people suing the government for inaction against climate change cited the LGBTQ ruling in asking the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco to reinstate their suit.  The court ordered the suit dismissed in a 2-1 ruling in January, saying that although global warming is potentially catastrophic, judges lack the power to order the government to move toward a carbon-free energy system. In asking the full appeals court for a new hearing, the youths’ lawyers said Gorsuch’s reasoning applies equally to the courts’ duty to enforce the Fifth Amendment’s guarantee that no one may be “deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.”  Predictions of impacts on environmental cases are far from unanimous. Ilya Shapiro, chief of constitutional studies at the libertarian Cato Institute, said he thinks the DACA ruling “is good for one ticket only” and that the court’s new interpretation of sex discrimination did not open the door to redefining legal terms.  “At a certain point, words have to mean something definite and aren’t endlessly expansive,” he said.  Deborah Sivas, a Stanford environmental law professor, said the DACA ruling added “some teeth” to a 1983 Supreme Court decision that required government agencies to justify repealing their previous rules. But she said the pending environmental cases have political implications and that Roberts’ position on the issue “could be more case-specific than permanent.”  On the other hand, said Georgetown’s Buzbee, Roberts made it clear in the DACA ruling — and in last year’s ruling blocking the administration from adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census — that government agencies “need to turn square corners” when they change their rules, explaining both their reasoning and the impact on those who followed the rules.  So far, he said, the Trump administration’s chief explanation for some of its major environmental actions, such as repealing the Clean Power Plan and removing federal clean water protections for many wetlands and small streams, is that the previous rules were not authorized by law — the same argument the court found insufficient in DACA.  “It doesn’t mean that the administration’s hands are forever bound,” said Ted Lamm, a climate policy researcher at UC Berkeley Law School who has filed legal arguments supporting California in the Clean Power Plan case. “But they need to explain why their new decision won’t harm those people ... like the states or electric utilities (that invested in clean-power systems) or why it’s necessary to accept a certain level of harm to achieve some other goal.”  Under the court’s current standards, Lamm said, “the Trump administration can’t just say those are no longer public policies. It’s got to explain why there are public benefits (from the rollbacks), or economic benefits at the cost of environmental benefits.”  Bob Egelko is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: begelko@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @BobEgelko
Democrats dodge abortion fight with plan to keep Hyde Amendment|https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/02/hyde-amendment-abortion-democrats-348272|Repealing the language also risked flaring tensions within the Democratic caucus, with vulnerable moderates anxious about an abortion battle on the House floor just months before voters go to the polls.  Pelosi held a conference call Wednesday with several leaders of the Pro-Choice Caucus, including Reps. Barbara Lee (D-Calif.) and Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), to discuss the decision, according to several Democratic aides. A draft of the appropriations bill that includes the Hyde language is expected to be unveiled Monday.  Several senior Democrats confirmed the issue had been under serious discussion. And some privately noted that internal caucus politics were also at play, with the powerful Appropriations gavel up for grabs next year.  “We’re talking about what we think the best course of action is,” Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), who leads the Appropriations subcommittee panel that oversees the issue, said in a brief interview earlier this week.  DeLauro, who is one of three Democrats running for the Appropriations chairmanship, declined to say whether she personally wanted to remove the provision this year, saying: “It’s all being discussed.”  Rep. Rosa DeLauro | Tasos Katopodis/Pool via AP Photo  Some senior Democratic aides privately argued that repealing the Hyde amendment was never going to happen, telling POLITICO that Democrats lacked the votes to kill a GOP procedural motion that would have targeted it — a tactic that Republicans have successfully weaponized against them on contentious issues.  Other Democrats still argued the language should be scrapped.  “Abortion access is a right. That means it should not be available just to those who can afford it," said Rep. Judy Chu (D-Calif.). "House Democrats have done more than ever before to protect the rights of all women, and I believe that should include the ultimate repeal of the Hyde Amendment.”  The news is sure to disappoint abortion rights groups like Planned Parenthood and NARAL, which had urged House Democrats to at least attempt to repeal the language since the party is in the majority.  Liberal groups have pushed Democrats to strip the provision every year since taking back the House in the 2018 elections. Their campaign gained steam last summer after Vice President Joe Biden — a long-time supporter of the Hyde language — announced he had changed his position amid mounting blowback during the fiercely competitive Democratic primary.  POLITICO NEWSLETTERS Huddle A daily play-by-play of congressional news in your inbox. Sign Up Loading By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  “We’ve been building and building and building and now is the moment to do this because we have the House, because we have a pro-choice majority in the House, because we have Biden on the record,” said Destiny Lopez, co-director of All Above All, a reproductive rights advocacy group.  “I think that we should no longer be calling anyone ‘pro-choice’ if they don’t support the repeal of Hyde and actually do something about it because choice is meaningless if you can’t actually afford to get the care.”  The vast majority of House Democrats say, in principle, they support scrapping the Hyde language, which advocates say prevents many low-income women from being able to afford abortion services. The caucus, as a whole, has moved dramatically to the left on this issue since Democrats last ruled the House a decade ago.  Further fueling the movement, a progressive challenger in Illinois took out one of the party’s last remaining anti-abortion members, Rep. Dan Lipinski, this spring.  But privately, many Democrats questioned why they should force the matter with Republicans — potentially with a government shutdown at stake — just months before their most vulnerable members are on the ballot. Moderates in Trump-won districts sought to avoid the issue, anticipating GOP attack ads that would accuse them of supporting “taxpayer-funded abortions.”  The internal debate over the language gained momentum in 2020 amid a three-way race to lead the powerful House Appropriations panel next year.  DeLauro is vying for the position with two other senior Democrats: Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.). Kaptur, who’s shifted to the left on abortion rights in recent years, had already vowed to eliminate the Hyde language in a candidate letter she sent to the Democratic caucus this year.  Wasserman Schultz declined to comment on the issue earlier this week, but an aide said after publication of this story that Wasserman Schultz supports repealing the Hyde Amendment this year.  Alice Miranda Ollstein contributed to this report.  
ECU Poll: Presidential and Senate Elections remain competitive, Cooper continues to lead Forest|https://www.witn.com/2020/07/02/ecu-poll-presidential-and-senate-elections-remain-competitive-cooper-continues-to-lead-forest/|GREENVILLE, NC (WITN)- The latest ECU poll, conducted June 22-25, shows a virtual tie in the race for president in North Carolina, with former Vice-President Joe Biden leading President Donald Trump among registered voters by one percentage point 45% to 44%.  The state’s contest for United States Senate, which pits incumbent Republican Thom Tillis against Democratic challenger Cal Cunningham, shows another highly competitive matchup, with registered voters evenly split 41% to 41%.  In the race for governor, Democratic incumbent Roy Cooper currently holds a lead of eleven percentage points over Republican challenger Dan Forest 49% to 38%.  Cooper’s lead has slightly declined from a previous ECU Poll taken in May that showed him ahead by fifteen percentage points, however, approximately 52% of registered voters in North Carolina approve of Cooper’s overall job performance. Similarly, 53% approve of Cooper’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak.  By comparison, 44% of registered voters in North Carolina approve of President Trump’s overall job performance, with 51% disapproving. When asked about President Trump’s handling of the federal government’s response to the coronavirus, 42% percent approve compared to 51% who disapprove.  The poll results show that there is continued worry about the spread of the coronavirus in North Carolina, and that those who are concerned are the most likely to take precautions.  The poll consisted of 1,149 registered voters in North Carolina, with a Credibility Interval similar to a poll’s margin of error of +/- 3.4 percentage points.  Copyright 2020 WITN. All rights reserved.
Hickenlooper Stumbles in Colorado Race, Complicating Democrats’ Senate Push|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/27/us/hickenlooper-colorado-romanoff-gardner.html|KREMMLING, Colo. — For months, Democrats have figured that Colorado’s U.S. Senate race, a linchpin of their strategy to take back the majority in November, was essentially in the bag, with the Republican incumbent Cory Gardner trailing by double digits behind their candidate John Hickenlooper, the well-liked and well-known former two-term governor and Denver mayor.  But Mr. Hickenlooper, who was coaxed into the Senate contest after ending his brief presidential run, has faltered in recent weeks ahead of the primary race on Tuesday. He now finds himself in a tougher-than-expected contest with Andrew Romanoff, a former state House speaker and another longtime Colorado political presence, in a fight with significant implications for the general election and control of the Senate.  At a time when Democrats sense fresh momentum for flipping the Senate amid national crises that have tarnished President Trump and threaten to drag down Republican candidates, Mr. Hickenlooper’s shaky primary performance has been a rare dark spot in an otherwise brightening landscape. Democrats would have a difficult time capturing the majority without a Centennial State victory.  “He has had a bad June,” Kyle Saunders, a political-science professor at Colorado State University, said about Mr. Hickenlooper’s multiple travails and missteps. Chief among them was a contempt finding by the state’s independent ethics commission for defying a subpoena to appear at a hearing on a complaint against him — an event that prompted disastrous news coverage across the state.
Donald Trump endorses Tony Gonzales to replace U.S. Rep. Will Hurd|https://www.texastribune.org/2020/07/03/tony-gonzales-donald-trump-endorsement-will-hurd/|President Donald Trump on Friday endorsed Tony Gonzales in the Republican primary runoff to replace retiring U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, R-Helotes, three days after U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz shook up the race by backing Gonzales' opponent, Raul Reyes.  "[Gonzales] will be a GREAT Congressman for Texas!" Trump tweeted. "A Navy veteran, he is Strong on the Economy, Life and the Second Amendment. We need him to defeat the Radical Left in November. Tony has my Complete and Total Endorsement!"  Gonzales welcomed Trump's endorsement, thanking him on Twitter. "Let's win in November!" Gonzales said.  Trump's backing is a dramatic intervention. Cruz endorsed Reyes on Tuesday — and launched a TV ad buy for him through his leadership PAC.  Reyes and Gonzales, a former Navy cryptologist, are competing to take on Gina Ortiz Jones, the Democratic nominee for the seat, in one of the top pickup opportunities for Democrats nationwide. Jones is running again after nearly unseating Hurd in 2018.  Gonzales has the backing of Hurd as well as national GOP leaders. He has been endorsed by the top two Republicans in the House, Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Minority Whip Steve Scalise, and Tom Emmer, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, has publicly promoted Gonzales.  But until Friday, Gonzales did not have the most powerful GOP endorsement of all: the president's. Gonzales had expressed hope for Trump's support in the primary, and on Monday, he teased that he would have "HUGE news to share later this week."  A day later, Cruz stepped in, saying the 23rd District "deserves strong conservative representation." His leadership PAC, the Jobs, Freedom, and Security PAC, launched a six-figure cable buy for Reyes at the same time, airing a 30-second spot with Cruz speaking to the camera.  "President Trump needs more congressmen like Col. Reyes, leaders who won’t surrender our border, our sovereignty, our way of life," Cruz says in the ad.  Reyes has been campaigning as the purest Trump supporter in the runoff, pointing out that Gonzales is supported by Hurd, who has had occasional disagreements with the president. Last week, though, a Trump campaign adviser criticized Reyes for a mailer featuring the president's image superimposed alongside Reyes, calling it misleading and noting Trump had not endorsed in the runoff at that point.  While the Trump endorsement gives Gonzales a big boost in the primary runoff, it is likely less helpful for the general election. Trump lost the perennial battleground district by 4 percentage points in 2016, while Hurd carried it by 1.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee responded to the endorsement by noting that Trump could be a liability in the general election.  "This last-minute endorsement arrives too late to prevent the Republican contest’s turn into a bitter, vindictive and expensive mess, but just in time for Gonzales to own President Trump’s losing record of raising health care costs in the general election," DCCC spokesman Avery Jaffe said in a statement. "With this toxic endorsement in a pro-Clinton and pro-Biden district, Tony Gonzales is now the overwhelming favorite to win on July 14 and lose on November 3. Congratulations, Tony!"
Can Trump's anti-mail-voting crusade hurt him in key states?|https://www.stltoday.com/news/national/govt-and-politics/can-trumps-anti-mail-voting-crusade-hurt-him-in-key-states/article_1c1e4d40-dd27-5237-830b-4feec163e954.html|WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump wore a mask during a visit to a military hospital on Saturday, the first time the president has been seen in public with the type of facial covering recommended by health officials as a precaution against spreading or becoming infected by the novel coronavirus.
Voting rules changed quickly for the primaries. But the battle over how Americans will cast ballots in the fall is just heating up.|https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/voting-rules-changed-quickly-for-the-primaries-but-the-battle-over-how-americans-will-cast-ballots-in-the-fall-is-just-heating-up/2020/07/03/9b865dfa-ba43-11ea-80b9-40ece9a701dc_story.html|While the vast majority of voters were permitted to cast absentee ballots during the primaries, only about 10 states so far have announced that they will make voting by mail easier for November, raising fears that Election Day could be marked by long lines and unsafe conditions at polling locations if the health crisis persists.  AD  With Republican governors under pressure from President Trump not to expand voting by mail and many legislatures adjourned for the year or deadlocked along party lines, changes in the coming months are likely to come through court decisions.  Legal battles in about two dozen states are now poised to shape the details of how roughly 130 million registered voters are able to cast ballots in upcoming contests, with more than 60 lawsuits related to absentee voting and other rules wending their way through the courts, according to a tally by The Washington Post.  AD  The state of limbo reflects the unprecedented challenges of running elections in the middle of a global health crisis, as well as the increasingly contentious partisan debate over whether mail voting is secure.  AD  Across the country, conflicting court decisions could exacerbate the differences in voters’ experiences at the ballot box in November. And as the fights play out, the uncertainty is further complicating election officials’ ability to prepare for the vote.  “I think it’s clear we have a potential disaster on our hands on Election Day if we can’t process as many votes as possible beforehand,” said Dale Ho, who supervises voting litigation for the American Civil Liberties Union and supports the expansion of absentee voting this year.  “The alarm bells are going off. It’s not just some sort of hypothetical as a problem — we’ve seen it as a problem multiple times. It will repeat in November. The question is how much and in how many places and how badly,” he said.  AD  AD  While every presidential election year brings an increase in voting rights litigation, the pandemic has multiplied the number of lawsuits filed in the past 3½ months.  Democrats and voting rights advocates are pursuing cases to make it easier to vote by mail, filing more than 50 lawsuits in 25 states. The GOP is pushing to limit the expansion of voting by mail, backed by a $20 million Republican National Committee effort and help from conservative groups.  Trump has made it clear that he is determined to curtail access to mail ballots, claiming without evidence that their use leads to widespread fraud.  “My biggest risk is that we don’t win lawsuits,” the president said in June in an interview with Politico. “We have many lawsuits going all over. And if we don’t win those lawsuits . . . I think it puts the election at risk.”  AD  AD  There is no evidence that mail voting leads to the kind of massive fraud Trump has described. A recent analysis by The Post found that cases of potential fraud have been exceedingly rare in states that conduct voting exclusively by mail.  But the GOP has started to echo the president’s claims in battleground states such as Pennsylvania, where the Trump campaign recently sued to stop voters from using drop boxes to return completed absentee ballots and block ballots from being counted if they do not arrive inside the provided secrecy envelope.  The complaint — which Democrats decried as an effort to suppress the vote — argues that mail voting “provides fraudsters an easy opportunity to engage in ballot harvesting, manipulate or destroy ballots, manufacture duplicitous votes, and sow chaos,” channeling Trump’s rhetoric.  AD  AD  “How many times have you had a birthday card or a Christmas card that didn’t make it to somebody? Add on top of that trying to layer this [increased mail voting] in four months before an election and you have a recipe for disaster,” Trump campaign senior counsel Justin Clark recently told CBS’s “60 Minutes.”  Meanwhile, Democrats and their allies are pushing to make mail voting easier by targeting elements of the process they argue create unfair hurdles, such as rules limiting who can cast absentee ballots, witness requirements and a lack of paid postage for returning ballots through the mail.  “When the political branches fail to protect voting rights, it is left to the courts to do that,” said leading Democratic elections attorney Marc Elias, who estimated that he is litigating more than three dozen cases in 17 states. “If the political branches were functioning the way they’re supposed to, you would have Republicans and Democrats agreeing to increase access to absentee voting. You’d be putting in place safeguards to make sure every eligible voter who casts a ballot has that ballot counted. . . . Unfortunately, the Republican Party is taking its cues from Donald Trump.”  Wins on both sides  Both sides have experienced wins and losses this year.  AD  AD  Elias said his most meaningful success so far came in April, when the Supreme Court ruled that absentee ballots in Wisconsin’s primary could be counted as long as they were postmarked by the date of the election and received within a week. The decision — which Democrats hope will pave the way for other rulings — was significant because absentee ballots are not typically counted in Wisconsin unless they are received on or by Election Day.  “The fact is that as a result of the litigation we brought, tens of thousands of voters had their ballots counted that would not have been counted. We have cited that precedent in court after court after court around the country,” Elias said.  Democrats have also seen other victories ahead of November.  AD  In Tennessee last month, a Nashville judge ruled that any eligible voter who is concerned about contracting the coronavirus at a polling place may cast an absentee ballot this fall, even though state law would typically require that voter to qualify using an excuse. The state Supreme Court declined last week to stay the decision after a request from Republican Secretary of State Tre Hargett.  AD  Republicans, meanwhile, have been buoyed by recent federal court decisions involving voting in Wisconsin and Texas.  The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected a request by the Texas Democratic Party to hear its case to extend access to mail ballots to anyone concerned about exposure to the coronavirus before the July 14 runoffs. Currently, only voters who are 65 or older, disabled, incarcerated or out of the country on Election Day and during early voting can vote by absentee in the state.  AD  Republican Attorney General Ken Paxton cheered the high court’s ruling, saying it would help guard against “widespread fraud.”  Texas Democratic Party Chair Gilberto Hinojosa called that position “disgusting and morally wrong.”  “They know that if Texans get out to vote, their time in power is done,” Hinojosa said of Republicans in a statement Wednesday, adding, “We can and will overcome.”  AD  The party, which still hopes the high court will consider its case, has also appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit.  Meanwhile, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit ruled Monday that, after more than three years, Wisconsin must reinstate several Republican-backed voting restrictions, including limits on early voting.  Leading Republicans touted it as a victory for “fair elections.”  “Why should some people get to vote sooner than other people just because of where they lived,” tweeted Scott Walker, the Republican former governor of Wisconsin. “Now everyone has two weeks to vote early if they want. That’s more generous than most states.”  The original GOP policies were struck down in 2016 for discriminating against minority voters, a conclusion the appellate panel rejected this week.  AD  Democrats denounced the panel’s decision, saying the shift could lengthen the lines in Milwaukee that already made the state’s vote in April one of the biggest cautionary tales of the primaries.  “The truth is that because one party has so relentlessly weaponized racism, voting is now highly predicted by race — and so it’s possible to suppress the vote of [African Americans] under the guise of suppressing Democrats. This opens the door to making that legal,” Wisconsin Democratic Party Chair Ben Wikler tweeted Monday.  Waiting on decisions  As the legal fights play out, state officeholders are coming under pressure to clarify the rules for the fall — especially in the 16 states that currently require an excuse to vote absentee.  Among states that have announced plans to relax their voting policies or practices for November, the most dramatic shift will take place in California, where Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) has ordered election officials to proactively send absentee ballots to active registered voters for the general election. The move has drawn fierce opposition from the right, including a lawsuit from the RNC, but has since been authorized by a new state law.  The District of Columbia will also send absentee ballots to voters.  At least four states — including Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin — will proactively mail absentee ballot applications to voters. And at least three states where an excuse is typically required to vote absentee have chosen to abandon that requirement for the rest of the year, including Massachusetts and Missouri.  But a large number of states have yet to announce their plans.  “The dithering that we’ve seen [by state elected officials] is alarming,” Ho said. “Early in the pandemic, the situation was changing so quickly and the information was so new that I had some sympathy for elected officials and election administrators who were trying to puzzle through this problem, which really is unprecedented. Now, we know how bad the pandemic is and that it can get worse.”  In several states, Republican lawmakers have taken steps to limit the power of secretaries of state from their own party who made it easier to vote by mail during the midyear contests.  In Georgia, where GOP Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger mailed absentee ballot request forms to voters for the June 9 primaries, Republican House Speaker David Ralston has warned that expanded absentee voting could lead to fraud.  Last week, a state House committee approved a measure that would bar Raffensperger from mailing absentee request forms for the fall. The bill failed to pass before the legislature adjourned.  Raffensperger, who has already said his office lacks funds to send ballot request applications for the general election, said that proactively mailing voters the forms made sense earlier in the year.  “By a wide margin, voters on both sides of the political spectrum agree that sending absentee applications to all active voters was the safest and best thing our office could do to protect our voters at the peak of COVID-19,” he said in a statement. “Some seem to be saying that our office should have ignored the wave of absentee voting that was clearly coming.”  A few days later in Iowa, Gov. Kim Reynolds (R) signed a similar bill into law that will require the secretary of state to seek legislative approval to send absentee ballot request forms to voters before November.  The measure served to rebuke Secretary of State Paul Pate, a Republican who mailed the forms to voters for the primary last month. The contest was considered a success and shattered turnout records for a June primary in the state.  A spokesman for Pate did not respond to a request for comment on the new law.  Sylvia Albert, director of voting and elections with Common Cause, said decisions about how to handle voting during a pandemic are not easy but “have to be made.”  “There is no waiting it out,” Albert said, noting that as more time passes, the shorter the window for educating voters about any changes becomes. “As a state legislator, as a secretary of state, as a governor, you are responsible for ensuring that voters can access the ballot. By not moving ahead, they’re really abdicating their responsibility to the voters.”
Virus OK as excuse for voting absentee in Arkansas, Hutchinson says|https://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2020/jul/03/virus-ok-as-excuse-for-voting-absentee/?latest|Secretary of State John Thurston said Thursday that voters can begin requesting absentee ballots from his office or their county clerk immediately. (Arkansas Democrat-Gazette/Staton Breidenthal)  Any Arkansans who fear going to the polls this fall during the coronavirus pandemic can use their concerns as an excuse to vote absentee, Gov. Asa Hutchinson said Thursday.  The governor, who had not previously committed to expanding the use of mail-in or absentee ballots during the election, made the announcement alongside the chairmen of the state's Republican and Democratic parties, as well as Secretary of State John Thurston.  Arkansas law allows voters to request absentee ballots if they will be "unavoidably absent" on Election Day or if they have illnesses or physical disabilities.  Thurston said last week in a news release that he believed the law will allow voters to choose whether to vote absentee during the pandemic, an interpretation with which Hutchinson said he concurred.  [CORONAVIRUS: Click here for our complete coverage » arkansasonline.com/coronavirus]  "They just simply have a concern, a fear of going to the polling place because of the covid-19, that's enough of a reason" to vote absentee, Hutchinson said.  Thurston said voters can immediately begin requesting absentee ballots from his office or their local county clerks. The deadline to request an absentee ballot by mail or fax is Oct. 27, though a voter can pick up an absentee ballot in person until Nov. 2, the day before the election.  All absentee ballots must be returned by 7 p.m. on Election Day, Nov. 3, to be counted, Thurston said.  The new absentee voting requirements are different from the universal vote-by-mail system in place in some states, which send a ballot by mail to every registered voter. In Arkansas, a voter must request an absentee ballot.  [RELATED » Full coverage of elections in Arkansas » arkansasonline.com/elections/]  Proponents of mail-in ballots characterized Hutchinson's announcement Thursday as an encouraging step, though they urged him and other election officials to do more to clarify the rules of absentee voting and to use federal funding to pay postage for voters.  "I still think the process for getting a ballot in Arkansas is fairly cumbersome," said Bill Kopsky, the executive director of the Arkansas Public Policy Panel.  Kopsky noted that an absentee voter is required to send a photocopy of his voter ID in with his ballot, but that many people don't have access to a copier at home and are not going to work because of the pandemic.  He said the governor should issue an executive order waiving the requirement and that the state should undertake a marketing campaign explaining how to request and mail in an absentee ballot.  Democratic Party of Arkansas Chairman Michael John Gray praised the governor for reaching a compromise with both parties, though he also suggested that more work would be required to implement expanded absentee voting.  "We have a challenge moving forward of educating the voters on how to properly obtain, how to properly document, and how to properly fill out absentee ballots," Gray said. "As well as questions from the local government on the increased costs surrounding this and the increased processes from here to Election Day."  Thurston, the secretary of state, said a lack of funding would prevent the state from simply mailing an application to every registered voter to use to request a ballot. He added that nothing in the law prevents county clerks from taking such a step.  Pulaski County Clerk Terri Hollingsworth said her office estimated that it would cost $125,000 to mail absentee ballot request forms to all of the county's 250,000 registered voters.  "We have talked about it, but it certainly is cost prohibitive for us," Hollingsworth said.  Republican Party of Arkansas Chairman Doyle Webb said he supports the governor's announcement and encouraged voters to request absentee ballots if they fear going to the polls. He added that there is an "important distinction" between expanding the existing absentee voting process and mailing ballots to all registered voters.  "It requires personal responsibility," Webb said. "You need to make that request as a registered voter, and then once you receive your ballot, you will send back with it your voter ID."  While the majority of states -- including those that traditionally vote Republican or Democratic -- already offer no-excuse absentee voting or all-mail elections, the issue has become increasingly partisan in recent years over accusations of voter fraud.  President Donald Trump has spoken out against the increased use of mail-in ballots and at times made inaccurate claims about the prevalence of fraud in elections that rely heavily on them.  In May, he tweeted "The United States cannot have all Mail In Ballots, It will be the greatest Rigged Election in history," before adding later in the same tweet, "Some absentee OK, when necessary." (The president voted absentee earlier this year in Florida's primary elections, a state that does not require an excuse to do so.)  An analysis of vote-by-mail in three states by the The Washington Post found that instances of voter fraud in mailed-in ballots represented 0.0025% of votes cast.  Even the conservative Heritage Foundation, which opposes the increased use of voting by mail, identified only two instances of fraudulent use of absentee ballots in Arkansas since 2002, despite millions of votes being cast in that period.  Hutchinson said allowing voters to use covid-19 as an excuse to vote absentee would be the "foundation" of this year's elections in Arkansas, though he did not dismiss exploring other options to protect voters from the coronavirus, such as expanding early voting or opening polling sites in larger venues to allow social distancing.  "I think there certainly can be a discussion about whether there should be in each county additional locations," the governor said. "That's a resource issue, it's a local county election commission issue."  Leslie Bellamy, director of the secretary of state's Election Division, said expanding early voting beyond its current two-week period before an election would likely require an act of the Legislature, which is not scheduled to meet in session until January.  Thurston said he hoped his office would be able to use funds from the federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act to subsidize the cost of postage for absentee ballots, though he declined to elaborate, citing a lawsuit filed that seeks to make it easier to vote absentee.  One of the attorneys behind that lawsuit, David Couch, said Thursday that the governor's announcement of his interpretation of the law lacked legal authority. Couch said that absent an executive order signed by Hutchinson, he would seek summary judgment in court declaring that voters can cite coronavirus as an excuse to vote absentee.  Hutchinson said Thursday that he did not plan on issuing an executive order, saying his announcement along with Thurston's "adequately solves the problem."  Doyle Webb, chairman of the Republican Party of Arkansas, discusses the plan to allow absentee voting for people worried about the coronavirus. (Arkansas Democrat-Gazette/Staton Breidenthal)
Opinion | Please, Republicans, don’t join Trump’s crusade against voting-by-mail|https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/07/03/please-republicans-dont-join-trumps-crusade-against-voting-by-mail/|I’ll leave it to others to point out the irony of his warning about foreign intervention in a presidential election.  So what is really worrying him? As Trump has said out loud, he’s afraid that he’ll lose the election in November if too many people vote.  At every opportunity, Trump is conjuring unsupported claims and issuing warnings about the evils of absentee voting. He does so despite the fact that absentee voting has been around since the Civil War and that, increasingly, states both red and blue are not just allowing but also encouraging citizens to vote by mail.  AD  AD  Public support for voting-by-mail was in place long before the novel coronavirus came along. In the past week, Colorado and Utah conducted successful, smooth primary elections almost entirely by mail, with strong turnouts and no need for voters to stand in unhealthy lines. For a highly contested June 23 primary, Kentucky’s Democratic governor and Republican secretary of state worked together to make absentee voting less cumbersome. It worked, and turnout was at near-record levels. Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) both won their primaries with thousands of mail-in votes. The only problems Kentucky encountered resulted from the covid-19-driven consolidation of in-person, Election Day polling places.  Many states have well-established mail-in voting and absentee options, and with covid-19 raging, others are prudently taking steps to make absentee voting more accessible. Polls show nearly 80 percent of voters support giving all voters the option of voting in person or voting absentee. That includes a majority of Republicans — the president’s paranoia notwithstanding.  Even if Trump doesn’t care, voters do care. Especially when it comes to elderly citizens, those with health challenges and those of us who are simply concerned about infecting others, forcing voters to choose between safety and exercising a right that is fundamental to American democracy is just wrong, and potentially deadly.  AD  AD  Would there be massive fraud in November, as Trump proclaims? No system is perfect, but there is no evidence that absentee voting is less secure than other methods. To the extent that individual states need assistance and funding to put systems in place, Congress and the administration should help make the necessary resources available. After all, what is more important to protecting the U.S. Constitution and system of government than fair and safe elections?  Trump has convinced himself that if too many Americans vote, he will lose in November. On that point, he is surely right. But any attempt by the administration to suppress votes or hinder the election would be outrageous, un-American and ought to be investigated.  To my fellow Republicans, I plead with you to not follow Trump off this cliff. A political party that brands itself as the party of exclusion, disregard for citizens’ safety and thinly veiled vote suppression is not a party with a future. When Trump says Republicans can’t be elected with mail-in voting, he isn’t concerned about anyone other than himself. Republicans all across the country have prevailed in elections for years in states that allow easy absentee voting and even hold elections conducted almost entirely by mail.  AD  AD  Preserving the right of Americans to vote safely and confidently is so much bigger than this president or any other. If we force voters to choose between safety and exercising a precious right, the political consequences for Republicans will far outlast the presidency of Donald J. Trump.
EDITORIAL: New Jersey case shows that voter fraud exists, the risks of vote by mail|https://www.reviewjournal.com/opinion/editorials/editorial-new-jersey-case-shows-that-voter-fraud-exists-the-risks-of-vote-by-mail-2066906/|Confidence in the accuracy of election results is of paramount importance in our country, especially during a time of deep partisan divisions.  (Getty Images)  Confidence in the accuracy of election results is of paramount importance in our country, especially during a time of deep partisan divisions. That’s why what happened in New Jersey should concern everyone.  In response to the coronavirus outbreak, New Jersey moved to an all vote-by-mail system. In late June, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal charged Paterson City Councilman Michael Jackson and Councilman-elect Alex Mendez with voting fraud. Two other men were also named.  Charges included fraud in casting mail ballots and unauthorized possession of ballots. Many of the problems were related to a pernicious practice called ballot harvesting. In New Jersey, a voter can designate a “bearer” to deliver his or her ballot. The four men allegedly delivered ballots even though their names weren’t listed as the bearer. The charges allege that Mr. Jackson received a ballot from one voter that was unsealed. The Board of Elections later received that ballot in a sealed envelope. Mr. Mendez was charged with submitting a voter registration application for someone he knew wasn’t eligible to vote in the district for which he registered that person.  The investigation started after postal workers found hundreds of ballots bundled together in two mailboxes. The post office then alerted election officials. Ultimately, those ballots didn’t end up being counted. Good.  “Today’s charges send a clear message: if you try to tamper with an election in New Jersey, we will find you and we will hold you accountable,” Mr. Grewal said in a statement. “We will not allow a small number of criminals to undermine the public’s confidence in our democratic process.”  Mr. Grewal should be commended for taking swift action against those committing acts of fraud. But the investigation started only when postal workers came across hundreds of mail ballots. If those ballots had been left in public mailboxes in groups of 20, it seems likely this alleged scheme never would have been discovered.  The scandal also highlights potential issues with massive mail-in voting and with ballot harvesting. The sanctity of the secret ballot can easily be compromised, as evidenced by a voter giving an unsealed ballot to Mr. Jackson. Meanwhile, ballot harvesting gives a third party — not the government or the voter — access to a ballot, expanding the chain of custody and increasing the potential for shenanigans. The security problems this presents are obvious. It’s hard to think Mr. Jackson and Mr. Mendez returned unfavorable ballots.  The New Jersey incident isn’t proof of widespread fraud. But it’s a stark reminder that safeguards must be in place to maintain election integrity and that mail-in ballots present unique opportunities for dishonest people to engage in illegal activity.
Trump supporters hope to use conservative anger at Chief Justice Roberts to energize troubled campaign|https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-john-roberts-abortion-supreme-court/2020/06/30/34513f92-bae8-11ea-80b9-40ece9a701dc_story.html|Some recent polls have shown a weakening in support for Trump among evangelicals, who have long been among the president’s strongest supporters. But Roberts’s role in cases advancing both gay and abortion rights is now seen in the White House as an opening to shore up that part of Trump’s political base.  Ralph Reed, the founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said there is frustration and disappointment in evangelical ranks about Roberts’s rulings. But he said he and others are not going to walk away from Trump.  AD  AD  “Voters of faith know that that project to shift the court in a more conservative direction is on the 5-yard line and it’s a strategic imperative to get President Trump reelected,” Reed said. “The Louisiana decision has brought the life issue into fuller relief and reminded us why we have to give the president the chance to nominate more justices.”  In a remarkable stretch of decisions over the past two weeks, Roberts has infuriated conservatives and the Trump administration by finding that federal anti-discrimination law protects gay, bisexual and transgender workers and stopping the president from ending the federal program that protects undocumented immigrants brought into the country as children.  In Monday’s decision striking down a restrictive Louisiana abortion law, Roberts said the court’s allegiance to honoring its past decisions meant striking down a law almost identical to one in Texas that the court said in 2016 was unconstitutional.  AD  AD  Still, even as the White House works to reassure conservatives, it faces challenges in containing the rage over the George W. Bush appointee’s alignment with liberal colleagues and ensuring that his rulings do not depress the president’s core voters.  “John G. Roberts Jr. has stabbed the American people in the back more than Norman Bates and ‘swings’ more than Hugh Hefner in his heyday,” former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, an evangelical leader, tweeted on Tuesday, adding that Roberts should “Resign Now.”  Roberts is not alone in facing conservatives’ wrath. Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, a Trump appointee, and Roberts joined the court’s liberals in the 6-to-3 ruling that a landmark federal civil rights law from the 1960s protects gay and transgender workers.  AD  Gorsuch’s move to chart his own course is particularly painful for some conservatives, given that he was vetted for Trump by a small network of conservative legal scholars, including leaders of the Federalist Society, who offered public assurances about him.  AD  Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), a former Supreme Court clerk, said the “Republican vetting process” should be revamped before the next vacancy, with more emphasis on input by social conservatives.  “This term has been shell shocking for religious conservatives in particular,” Hawley said. “A lot of them are extremely upset and depressed about it, and rightly so.” He added, “We’ve got to rethink how we vet and select the justices. . . . Religious conservatives need to be more involved and their voices heard.”  AD  Inside the White House, officials are working to hold conservatives together and to remind them of Trump’s track record on the federal judiciary, arguing that the scope of the president’s efforts should outweigh any anger at Roberts and others on the court.  Vice President Pence, a conservative who has spent his career building bonds with evangelicals, is at the center of that outreach, according to two conservative activists in frequent contact with the White House.  AD  On Monday, Pence did not swipe at Roberts directly, but he did tweet that “after today’s disappointing decision by SCOTUS, one thing is clear: We need more Conservative justices on the U.S. Supreme Court.” Pence also spoke Monday with the Susan B. Anthony List, an antiabortion group whose leader has criticized Roberts as caving to “social pressures” that cause “intellectual and moral collapse.”  AD  One of Pence’s aides, veteran conservative organizer Paul Teller, is communicating daily with right-wing groups and “bucking them up, staying positive, and sending us talking points,” one of the conservative activists said.  There also are ongoing discussions between Trump advisers and conservative leaders about the possibility of a Supreme Court vacancy in the coming months — a tantalizing prospect for Republicans who value the court above all other issues and are eager to have Trump have one more opportunity to nominate a justice before the election.  AD  Justice Clarence Thomas, a conservative appointed by George H.W. Bush, is privately seen by Trump’s aides as the most likely to retire this year. While Thomas has not given any indication of doing so, the White House and Senate Republicans are quietly preparing for a possible opening, according to a White House official and two outside Trump political advisers who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private conversations.  AD  “If Thomas goes, you’ve got a lot of people around this process ready to support Thapar — and McConnell ready to move his favorite through,” said one of the outside Trump political advisers, referring to Judge Amul R. Thapar of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit.  Thapar, 51, is the son of Indian immigrants and has been touted by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) as a prime candidate. He previously served as a U.S. attorney and federal district court judge in Kentucky — and was on Trump’s shortlist in 2018 when Justice Anthony M. Kennedy retired from the bench.  AD  Other conservatives remain hopeful that Judge Amy Coney Barrett, 48, of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit, will be nominated by Trump if there is a vacancy. But Barrett’s past membership in groups that have promoted antiabortion views could make her harder to confirm in campaign season, the outside advisers said.  AD  Several Trump advisers and the White House official said Coney Barrett is more likely to be nominated in the event that Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a Bill Clinton appointee, steps down. One of the Trump advisers said, encouragingly, that Coney Barrett would cause a “culture war.”  McConnell has publicly stated that he would push to confirm another Trump nominee.  “Oh, we’d fill it,” McConnell said in May when asked at a Kentucky event about whether he would fill a vacancy this year. That remark sparked outrage and cries of hypocrisy among Democrats since McConnell blocked Judge Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court in 2016, insisting the nomination should wait until after that year’s presidential election.  AD  AD  The White House official said Trump is likely to update and extend his public shortlist for the Supreme Court before the election as a way of reminding conservatives of his commitment to their cause.  For Trump, keeping conservatives who focus on the court engaged and upbeat about him is of paramount importance as he faces off against former vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee. Biden has pledged to nominate a black woman for the Supreme Court, should he win the White House.  Top Democrats are urging their own activists to remain vigilant and keep pace with conservatives.  “The ruling on the Louisiana law is no cause for complacency,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said. “There will be more efforts by state legislatures to chip away at reproductive rights, and this week’s majority could be lost if Trump is reelected.”  AD  Whether Roberts’s rulings end up driving up GOP turnout or not, it is clear that anger over the chief justice is unlikely to abate soon.  “If it were up to me, I’d start impeachment proceedings” against Roberts, American Conservative Union chairman Matt Schlapp, a Trump ally, told Fox News on Tuesday. “What he’s done on Obamacare twice and what he has done here on abortion is act like a left-wing politician. If he’s not going to be impeached, he ought to resign and run for Congress.”  On the campaign trail in Tulsa on June 20, Trump told his rally crowd, “Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they’re great. They’re great. We have two and we could get a few more. Yeah. We could get a few.”  When asked last week, in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network, whether Roberts is “worse” than past GOP-nominated justices that have distressed conservatives, such as Kennedy, Trump said, ‘So far, we’re not doing so well. It says, look, you’ve had a lot of losses with a court that was supposed to be in our favor.”  But, Trump added, the rulings show that it is necessary for Republicans to win this year to avoid having a “radical left group of judges” on the court.  Trump’s campaign advisers said the campaign will continue to make that point to Trump’s supporters this summer.  “President Trump has an unsurpassed record of appointing 200 solid, conservative judges and he will continue to do so,” Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, said in a statement. “Joe Biden cannot stand up to the radical left and would appoint liberal judges who would legislate from the bench. It would be a disaster for conservatives.”  The Senate last week confirmed Trump’s 200th judicial nominee, a milestone that Trump and McConnell have made a keystone of their political legacies.  Working to contain conservative anger over the court is hardly unusual for a Republican president. Harriet Miers, who was put forward by George W. Bush, withdrew from consideration in 2005 when Republicans objected to her nomination, saying she was insufficiently conservative. Retired justice David H. Souter was appointed by George H.W. Bush but became a target of conservative ire after he reliably voted with the liberal bloc on the court in the 1990s and early 2000s.  “Conservative activists and Trump supporters don’t blame Trump for it. It just seems to be a pattern of bad luck for conservatives. We had it with Souter, and I guess we’re getting it with Roberts, if these last few decisions are an indication,” said former senator Bob Smith (R-N.H.).
Trump supporters hope to use conservative anger at Roberts as energizing moment for troubled campaign|https://www.ctpost.com/news/article/Trump-supporters-hope-to-use-conservative-anger-15379138.php|Trump supporters hope to use conservative anger at Roberts as energizing moment for troubled campaign  Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. walks to the Senate to preside over the impeachment trial of President Trump on Jan. 21, 2020. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. walks to the Senate to preside over the impeachment trial of President Trump on Jan. 21, 2020. Photo: Washington Post Photo By Melina Mara. Photo: Washington Post Photo By Melina Mara. Image 1 of / 54 Caption Close Trump supporters hope to use conservative anger at Roberts as energizing moment for troubled campaign 1 / 54 Back to Gallery  WASHINGTON - The White House is trying to capitalize on conservative anger at Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. over his latest decisions by telling evangelical leaders and other activists that they need to turn out voters for President Donald Trump so he can use a second term to continue nominating conservative judges to the nation's highest court.  Some recent polls have shown a weakening in support for Trump among evangelicals, who have long been among the president's strongest supporters. But Roberts's role in cases advancing both gay and abortion rights is now seen in the White House as an opening to shore up that part of Trump's political base.  Ralph Reed, the founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said there is frustration and disappointment in evangelical ranks about Roberts's rulings, but he said he and others are not going to walk away from Trump.  "Voters of faith know that that project to shift the court in a more conservative direction is on the 5-yard line and it's a strategic imperative to get President Trump reelected," Reed said. "The Louisiana decision has brought the life issue into fuller relief and reminded us why we have to give the president the chance to nominate more justices."  In a remarkable stretch of decisions over the past two weeks, Roberts has infuriated conservatives and the Trump administration by finding that federal anti-discrimination law protects gay, bisexual and transgender workers and stopping the president from ending the federal program that protects undocumented immigrants brought into the country as children.  In Monday's decision striking down a restrictive Louisiana abortion law, Roberts said the court's allegiance to honoring its past decisions meant striking down a law almost identical to one in Texas that the court said in 2016 was unconstitutional.  Still, even as the White House works to reassure conservatives, it faces challenges in containing the rage over the George W. Bush appointee's alignment with liberal colleagues and ensuring that his rulings do not depress the president's core voters.  "John G. Roberts Jr. has stabbed the American people in the back more than Norman Bates and 'swings' more than Hugh Hefner in his heyday," former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, an evangelical leader, tweeted on Tuesday, adding that Roberts should "Resign Now."  Roberts is not alone in facing conservatives' wrath. Justice Neil Gorsuch, a Trump appointee, and Roberts joined the court's liberals in the 6-to-3 ruling that a landmark federal civil rights law from the 1960s protects gay and transgender workers.  The decision by Gorsuch to chart his own course is particularly painful for some conservatives, given that he was vetted for Trump by a small network of conservative legal scholars, including leaders of the Federalist Society, who offered public assurances of his credentials.  Inside the White House, officials are working to hold conservatives together and to remind them of Trump's track record on the federal judiciary, arguing that the scope of the president's efforts should outweigh any anger with Roberts and others on the court.  Vice President Mike Pence, a conservative who has spent his career building bonds with evangelicals, is at the center of that outreach, according to two conservative activists in frequent contact with the White House.  On Monday, Pence did not swipe Roberts directly, but he did tweet that "after today's disappointing decision by SCOTUS, one thing is clear: We need more Conservative justices on the U.S. Supreme Court." Pence also spoke Monday with the Susan B. Anthony List, an antiabortion group whose leader has criticized Roberts as caving to "social pressures" that cause "intellectual and moral collapse."  One of Pence's aides, veteran conservative organizer Paul Teller, is communicating daily with right-wing groups and "bucking them up, staying positive, and sending us talking points," one of the conservative activists said.  There are also ongoing discussions between Trump advisers and conservative leaders about the possibility of a Supreme Court vacancy in the coming months - a tantalizing prospect for Republicans who value the court above all other issues and are eager to have Trump have one more opportunity to nominate a justice before the election.  Justice Clarence Thomas, a conservative appointed by George H.W. Bush, is privately seen by Trump's aides as the most likely to retire this year. While Thomas has not given any indication of doing so, the White House and Senate Republicans are quietly preparing for a possible opening, according to a White House official and two outside Trump political advisers who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private conversations.  "If Thomas goes, you've got a lot of people around this process ready to support Thapar - and McConnell ready to move his favorite through," said one of the outside Trump political advisers, referring to Judge Amul Thapar of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit.  Thapar, 51, is the son of Indian immigrants and has been touted by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., as a prime candidate. He previously served as a U.S. attorney and federal district court judge in Kentucky - and was on Trump's shortlist in 2018 when Justice Anthony Kennedy retired from the bench.  Other conservatives remain hopeful that Judge Amy Coney Barrett, 48, of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit, will be nominated by Trump if there is a vacancy. But Barrett's past membership in groups that have promoted antiabortion views could make her harder to confirm in campaign season, the outside advisers said.  Several Trump advisers and the White House official said Coney Barrett is more likely to be nominated in the event that Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a Bill Clinton appointee, steps down. One of the Trump advisers said, encouragingly, that Coney Barrett would cause a "culture war."  McConnell has publicly stated that he would push to confirm another Trump nominee.  "Oh, we'd fill it," McConnell said in May when asked at a Kentucky event about whether he would fill a vacancy this year. That remark sparked outrage and cries of hypocrisy among Democrats since McConnell blocked Judge Merrick Garland, President Obama's nominee to the Supreme Court in 2016, insisting that the nomination should wait until after that year's presidential election.  The White House official said Trump is likely to update and extend his public shortlist for the Supreme Court before the election as a way of reminding conservatives of his commitment to their cause.  For Trump, keeping conservatives who focus on the court engaged and upbeat about him is of paramount importance as he faces off against former vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee. Biden has pledged to nominate a black woman for the Supreme Court, should he win the White House.  Top Democrats are urging their own activists to remain vigilant and keep pace with conservatives.  "The ruling on the Louisiana law is no cause for complacency," Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., said. "There will be more efforts by state legislatures to chip away at reproductive rights, and this week's majority could be lost if Trump is reelected."  Whether Roberts's rulings end up driving up GOP turnout or not, it is clear that anger over the chief justice is unlikely to abate soon.  "If it were up to me, I'd start impeachment proceedings against John G. Roberts Jr.," American Conservative Union chairman Matt Schlapp, a Trump ally, told Fox News on Tuesday. "What he's done on Obamacare twice and what he has done here on abortion is act like a left-wing politician. If he's not going to be impeached, he ought to resign and run for Congress."  On the campaign trail in Tulsa on June 20, Trump told his rally crowd, "Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they're great. They're great. We have two and we could get a few more. Yeah. We could get a few."  When asked last week, in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network, whether Roberts is "worse" than past GOP-nominated justices that have distressed conservatives, such as Kennedy, Trump said, 'So far, we're not doing so well. It says, look, you've had a lot of losses with a court that was supposed to be in our favor."  But, Trump added, the rulings show that it is necessary for Republicans to win this year to avoid having a "radical left group of judges" on the court.  Trump's campaign advisers said the campaign will continue to make that point to Trump's supporters this summer.  "President Trump has an unsurpassed record of appointing 200 solid, conservative judges and he will continue to do so," Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, said in a statement. "Joe Biden cannot stand up to the radical left and would appoint liberal judges who would legislate from the bench. It would be a disaster for conservatives."  The Senate last week confirmed Trump's 200th judicial nominee, a milestone that Trump and McConnell have made a keystone of their political legacies.  Working to contain conservative anger over the court is hardly unusual for a Republican president. Harriet Miers, who was put forward by George W. Bush, withdrew from consideration in 2005 when Republicans objected to her nomination, saying she was insufficiently conservative. Retired justice David Souter was appointed by George H.W. Bush but became a target of conservative ire after he reliably voted with the liberal bloc on the court in the 1990s and early 2000s.  "Conservative activists and Trump supporters don't blame Trump for it. It just seems to be a pattern of bad luck for conservatives. We had it with Souter, and I guess we're getting it with Roberts, if these last few decisions are an indication," said former senator Bob Smith, R-N.H.  ---  The Washington Post's Robert Barnes and Michael Scherer contributed to this report.
Exclusive: NRA has shed 200 staffers this year as group faces financial crisis|https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jun/29/nra-financial-crisis-layoffs-furloughs|After spending over $30m to help elect Donald Trump in 2016, the National Rifle Association faces a deepening financial crisis with over 200 staff layoffs and furloughs in 2020, according to three NRA sources, gun analysts and documents.  The situation is likely to hinder efforts by the gun rights group to help Trump and other Republicans win in November’s election.  The 200-plus layoffs and furloughs, which have not previously been reported and were mainly at NRA headquarters in Virginia, were spurred by declines in revenues and fundraising, heavy legal spending, political infighting, and charges of insider self-dealing under scrutiny by attorneys general in New York and Washington DC, the sources say.  “The widespread Covid layoffs and furloughs have further harmed both the NRA’s legal capacity and political influence beyond what was already a troubling deterioration,” said one NRA official who requested anonymity to discuss internal matters. The official added the outlook this year for NRA political spending was “deeply concerning.”  Revealed: top official did special favors on guns for NRA at interior department Read more  NRA staff learned about the furloughs, plus 20% staff pay cuts, four-day work weeks and other belt tightening, in an April email from Wayne LaPierre, the longtime top executive of the NRA, which claims it has 5 million members.  LaPierre’s email to the “NRA family” said “we have lost significant revenue” and linked the austerity moves to the pandemic’s stay-at-home orders. The email said the NRA hoped to bring back those furloughed when its finances improved.  The NRA declined to comment on the extent of the layoffs and furloughs, which sources said were continuing.  The NRA’s financial problems were palpable long before the pandemic but have increased due to a few factors, including the cancellation of a number of NRA fundraising dinners following the onset of Covid-19.  The NRA typically pulls in tens of millions of dollars yearly from Friends of NRA dinners in many states, but most were canceled after January and February, said the sources.  The NRA’s woes, say gun analysts, are expected to sharply reduce spending this year compared with the $30m the group spent on ads to help Trump win in 2016. They are also likely to mean cuts to its once formidable get out the vote operations in key states that historically provide big boosts to GOP candidates. Overall in 2016, the NRA spent close to $70m on ads and voter mobilization drives, say NRA sources.  In 2018, the NRA’s financial problems caused it to spend a relatively lackluster $9.4m on the midterm elections, and gun control groups outspent the NRA for the first time, which analysts say helped the Democrats win the House majority.  “The NRA is entering the summer and fall campaign with a series of crippling financial, legal, and political problems,” said Robert Spitzer, a political science professor at Cortland State University in New York.  Spitzer added: “As its anemic political spending in the 2018 midterm election showed, they will not be able to match anything like the roughly $70m they spent in 2016, as they continue to be plagued by a major revenue shortfall, a fact exacerbated by the impact of the coronavirus shutdown.”  Facebook Twitter Pinterest Wayne LaPierre, CEO of the NRA, speaks at CPAC in February. Photograph: Erik S Lesser/EPA  The drop in revenues accelerated in 2019 when several large NRA donors began a drive to oust LaPierre over allegations of mismanagement and self-dealing, and to promote reforms. The website helpsavethenra.com, which is headlined “Retire LaPierre”, boasted in December that $165m in donations and planned gifts had been withheld.  The donor revolt has been spurred in part by several reports of lavish personal spending by LaPierre. The Wall Street Journal revealed last year that according to the NRA’s former ad firm Ackerman McQueen, which has been in legal battles with the NRA and LaPierre, he took about $240,000 worth of trips to Italy, Hungary, the Bahamas and other locales that were charged to the ad firm. The Journal reported that the ad firm had paid for about $200,000 in expensive suits for LaPierre, including some from a Beverly Hills boutique.  LaPierre’s yearly salary in 2018 was close to $2m.  Two Democratic attorneys general in New York and DC have reportedly been investigating whether the NRA abused its non-profit tax-exempt status in different ways such as improperly transferring funds from an NRA Foundation to the NRA.  Further, the AGs are said to be examining the allegations of self-dealing by NRA leaders, including financial transactions involving LaPierre, the NRA and the former ad firm.  If the AGs bring charges, the NRA could lose its coveted non-profit status in New York, where it has long been chartered.  The NRA’s top outside lawyer has said it is complying with the investigations but has attacked the NY AG’s “zeal” and “the investigation’s partisan purposes”.  During the pandemic, the NRA and pro-gun allies have waged successful legal battles in a number of states to make gun shops and shooting ranges “essential” businesses and circumvent stay-at-home measures.  ‘The NRA is in grave danger’: group's troubles are blow to Trump's 2020 bid Read more  But in mid-June, second-amendment advocates and the NRA suffered a stinging legal setback when the supreme court declined 10 petitions to review lower court rulings involving gun laws in several states, including Illinois and Massachusetts, which have banned assault weapons.  The NRA attacked the high court’s “inaction” in a statement, blasting it for allowing “so-called gun safety politicians to trample on the freedom and security of law-abiding citizens”.  Due to the pandemic, the NRA earlier this year canceled its annual meeting in Nashville, which Trump has faithfully attended since taking office to solidify his NRA ties. It is now slated to be held on 5 September in Springfield, Missouri.  At last year’s meeting was concluding, Trump in a tweet urged his NRA allies to “stop the internal infighting” amid the charges of self-dealing by its leaders and to “get back to GREATNESS. FAST.” For now, Trump’s aspirations for a speedy NRA recovery seem largely unfulfilled.
Democrats pick up state Senate seat in special election|https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/politics/2020/06/30/kentucky-primary-2020-democrats-win-senate-seat-special-election/3278052001/|LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Democrats in Kentucky's state Senate picked up a seat from Republicans in the special election held last week, as Karen Berg defeated her GOP opponent Bill Ferko by a wide margin.  Two Republican incumbents in the state legislature also appear to have been defeated in a primary challenge. Rep. R. Travis Brenda fell just 30 votes short of Josh Bray in House District 71, while Sen. Albert Robinson lost by 742 votes to Brandon Storm in Senate District 21.  The results for the special election were revealed Tuesday morning — along with the results for primary races throughout the state — as election officials had to wait for mailed-in absentee ballots postmarked by June 23 to arrive and be counted.  Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear and Republican Secretary of State Michael Adams dramatically changed the typical nature of voting in Kentucky through their executive orders in April, allowing no-excuse absentee voting by mail for the first time in order to limit physical interactions between voters and poll workers and the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.  Berg, a physician, received 57% of the vote to Ferko's 43% in the special election for the District 26 Senate seat, which includes all of Oldham County and portions of northeast Jefferson County.  The Senate seat was left vacant when Republican and longtime incumbent Sen. Ernie Harris announced his retirement this spring.  LIVE UPDATES:See who won and who lost as Kentucky 2020 primary election results come in  Ferko picked up 53% of the vote in the more conservative Oldham County, but Berg received nearly twice as many votes as her Republican opponent in the suburbs of Jefferson County, an area that has heavily trended Democratic in recent years.  Berg, who ran against Harris in 2018 and lost in a close race, leaned heavily on her support for Beshear in her campaign ads, saying she would work with the governor to improve access to affordable health care.  Kentucky Democratic Party Chairman Ben Self issued a statement calling Berg's victory "a clear sign that Kentucky voters are tired of the divisiveness of the Republican Party of Kentucky."  Despite picking up the seat, Republicans still hold a large supermajority in the Senate chamber, holding 28 seats to the Democrats' 10.  Republicans also hold a 62-38 supermajority in the state House.  In the Republican primary in House District 71 in Central Kentucky, Bray picked up 4,107 votes according to unofficial totals, just 30 more than the incumbent Brenda.  Bray was endorsed by the Kentucky Chamber of Commerce in his challenge, with his campaign criticizing Brenda as the "most liberal" GOP member of the House and for being endorsed by the statewide union of public school teachers.  Brenda, a public school teacher from Cartersville, first won office in 2018, when he narrowly upset incumbent Rep. Jonathan Shell, a member of the Republican House leadership.  Kentucky US Senate primary:Amy McGrath squeaks out win over Charles Booker  Sen. Albert Robinson, R-London, won 34.5% of the vote in his reelection bid, losing to Republican primary challenger Brandon Storm, who received 38.7%.  Robinson, the 81-year old incumbent, was endorsed by major conservative groups and outspent his opponents in the race.  Storm, an attorney who was endorsed by the state teachers unions, released a campaign ad proclaiming himself as a “Trump conservative” who would go to Frankfort to battle “the radical left,” “socialists” and “gun-grabbing liberals.”  In Louisville-area primaries, Democrat Pamela Stevenson received 74% of the vote in her primary against David Snardon in House District 43, which is currently occupied by Rep. Charles Booker, who lost a close race against Amy McGrath for U.S. Senate.  Longtime Democratic incumbents Tom Burch and Charles Miller both won primary challenges in their Louisville House districts by winning 59% of the vote.  First-term Rep. Nima Kulkarni, D-Louisville, easily dispatched her primary challenge by picking up 79% of the vote in her rematch against Dennis Horlander, the longtime incumbent she defeated to gain office in 2018.  Louisville Metro Councilman David Yates won the Democratic primary for Senate District 37 in southwest Jefferson County, with his 67% of the vote easily outpacing three other candidates.  In Oldham County, Republican House Speaker David Osborne had no trouble defeating primary challenger Tiffany Dunn, a Jefferson County Public Schools teacher, winning 78% of the vote.  Rep. Chad McCoy, a Bardstown Republican in the House majority's leadership, fended off a primary challenge from Donald Thrasher, the chairman of the Nelson County Republican Party, receiving 59% of the vote.  Former U.S. Congressman Carroll Hubbard, who served a federal prison sentence in the 1990s for violating campaign finance laws, came up well short in yet another political comeback attempt, receiving only 14% of the vote in his bid to unseat GOP Rep. Steven Rudy in the House District 1.  Republican Aaron Yates received 76% of the vote in the primary for House District 88 in southeastern Fayette County against Monteia Mundy, whose DUI arrest in the middle of the campaign became a central theme of attacks from Yates' campaign. Yates will face first-term Democratic Rep. Cherlynn Stevenson in the fall.  In a five-way Republican primary in Senate District 7 in Central Kentucky, Adrienne Southworth won with 31% of the vote. Southworth made headlines last year when she was fired by former Gov. Matt Bevin's office over the objections of Lt. Gov. Jenean Hampton, for whom she worked.  Southworth will face Democrat Joe Graviss in the general election, with the winner replacing retiring senator and former governor Julian Carroll.  Setting up what could be a confusing general election, Republican Johnnie Turner easily won his Republican primary in Senate District 29 of Eastern Kentucky, as he will now face a familiar-sounding five-term Democratic incumbent: Sen. Johnny Ray Turner.  Reach reporter Joe Sonka at jsonka@courierjournal.com or 502-582-4472 and follow him on Twitter at @joesonka. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courierjournal.com/subscribe.
D.C. statehood approved by U.S. House for first time in history|https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-politics/dc-statehood-vote/2020/06/25/c2ac1670-b6ee-11ea-a8da-693df3d7674a_story.html|The White House confirmed Thursday that it opposes statehood, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has said he will not bring the legislation to a vote in his Republican-controlled chamber.  AD  But that did not stop the celebration by statehood advocates and D.C. officials who have pushed for passage of the legislation for years.  AD  A video tweeted by the office of D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D), who watched the proceedings with aides and statehood supporters at a restaurant on the Southwest Waterfront, showed her waving her hands above her head during the vote.  “Power concedes nothing without a demand. And statehood is our demand,” the fifth-generation Washingtonian said in a statement, referencing a famous quote from abolitionist and onetime D.C. resident Frederick Douglass. She added: “I was born without representation, but I swear — I will not die without representation. Together, we will achieve DC statehood, and when we do, we will look back on this day and remember all who stood with us on the right side of history.”  AD  Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D), who has served as the District’s nonvoting representative in Congress for nearly three decades, managed the bill for Democrats on the floor, doling out time for lawmakers from her party to speak and rebutting Republican arguments against statehood. In an interview, she said the experience was a thrill — with one major caveat.  AD  “Every member got to vote on D.C. statehood except the member who represents the District of Columbia,” she said. “We’re close to putting an end to this kind of anomaly.”  The House voted on D.C. statehood once before, in 1993. The bill failed 277 to 153.  This time, the legislation had 227 co-sponsors — a majority in the House. It passed 232 to 180, with 19 members not voting. The lone Democrat to oppose the bill was Rep. Collin C. Peterson, whose Minnesota district heavily favored President Trump in 2016.  AD  A companion bill in the Senate is co-sponsored by 39 Democrats and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).  D.C. statehood has become a civil rights litmus test for the Democratic Party’s left flank, particularly because the city, once a majority-African American one — and home to historically black Howard University and a rich tradition of black music from jazz to go-go — still has a population that is 46 percent African American.  AD  Many Democrats in the House chamber, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) and Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (Md.), wore black face masks emblazoned with “51” on Friday to protect them from the novel coronavirus.  Bowser and others who joined her to watch the vote wore masks in the restaurant and socially distanced.  AD  Pelosi said when her late father was in Congress, he was chair of a subcommittee in charge of the District, earning him the informal title “mayor of Washington,” but he nevertheless supported home rule.  “So, yesterday, someone said, ‘Can you find middle ground?’ ” Pelosi said. “This is middle ground, the status quo is. We have to go forward.”  Norton said federal law enforcement action in the District during recent protests against police violence, which went against the wishes of local leaders, would not have been tolerated if the District was a state.  AD  “The federal occupation of D.C. occurred solely because the president thought he could get away with it here,” Norton said. “He was wrong.”  AD  Rep. Jody Hice (R-Ga.) said D.C. could not be admitted into the union without a constitutional amendment and that the new “microstate” would have undue influence over the federal government.  “Because I believe in states’ rights, I cannot support this city becoming a state,” he said. “D.C. is simply not equipped to shoulder the burden of statehood.”  Rep. Andy Harris (R-Md.) said Democrats were eager to grow their ranks with the two Democratic senators likely to be elected if the deep-blue city became a state. The best way to enfranchise the 700,000 people who live in the District, he said, would be for D.C. to rejoin Maryland, which ceded part of the land needed to create the nation’s capital.  AD  AD  “This is a pure political bill,” Harris said. “Go to the Maryland General Assembly, fully controlled by Democrats, and say, ‘Take it back.’ ”  Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.) countered: “Maryland doesn’t want D.C., and D.C. doesn’t want to be in Maryland. The consent of the governed is a fundamental part of the American architecture.”  The vote is the culmination of decades of advocacy by Norton and statehood activists, who saw their signature issue pick up national steam in recent weeks as Trump and Bowser faced off over the police response to demonstrations in city streets.  AD  Norton said this week that her great-grandfather, Richard Holmes, escaped enslavement on a Virginia plantation and settled in the District, where he found freedom, “but not equal citizenship.”  AD  “My life as a third-generation Washingtonian has marched toward this milestone,” she said.  Her bill, H.R. 51, would shrink the seat of the federal government to a two-square-mile enclave, including the White House, Capitol Hill, the Supreme Court and other federal buildings, which would remain under congressional control.  The rest of the District would become known as the State of Washington, Douglass Commonwealth, named for Douglass, who was born into slavery on the Eastern Shore of Maryland and later lived in Anacostia.  AD  Even if Democrats take control of the Senate, they would need 60 votes for the bill to overcome a likely filibuster.  Advocates from a group called 51 for 51 traveled the country over the past year getting presidential candidates — including presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, who tweeted in support of statehood on Thursday — to commit to supporting statehood and an exception to the filibuster.  AD  The group on Friday launched a website, whywecantwait.com, and digital ads. They focused their campaign on trying to sway the six Democratic senators who are not co-sponsors of the statehood bill.  Norton said polls showing the Senate and White House is in reach for Democrats in the November elections are encouraging signs for the potential enactment of statehood in the next congressional session. She plans to launch an effort to educate the nation on what rights D.C. residents forfeit by living in the city.  “What pleases me about this vote is that it is so strong that it moves us with some enthusiasm to the Senate,” she said. “There’s widespread ignorance in the country about these core matters of citizenship affecting their own capital.”  Bo Shuff, executive director of DC Vote, said he believes it is only a matter of time until the District achieves full statehood.  AD
Jim Jordan: '2020 election is now about who can stand up to the mob'|https://www.foxnews.com/media/jim-jordan-election-who-can-stand-up-mob|Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, said on Tuesday that the 2020 presidential election is about one fundamental question for voters.  “Who can save America?” the member of the House Judiciary Committee asked on "Fox News @ Night" Tuesday.  “Is it going to be Joe Biden or Donald Trump. I mean, think about the cancel culture mob [that] says that if you stand for the pledge now, you stand for the anthem, somehow you're terrible,” Jordan said.  “Where does this end?” Jordan said.  TEXAS TOSS UP: FOX NEWS POLL SHOWS BIDEN-TRUMP IN A 1 POINT RACE  Jordan reacted to University of Wisconsin students pushing for a statue of Abraham Lincoln to be removed from the Madison campus over his treatment of indigenous and black people.  The Black Student Union and the Student Inclusion Coalition, both student organizations, called for the statue's removal in early June, despite Lincoln ending slavery in the United States.  The Black Student Union argues Lincoln's legacy also includes several actions that harmed people of color. He ordered the largest mass execution in U.S. history -- 38 Dakota men by hanging -- and signed the Homestead Act, which gave settlers land forcibly taken from Native Americans, the Wisconsin State Journal reported.  Jordan said that the cancel culture is calling for defunding and even abolishing of the police.  “The fundamental question, I think, for the American people is who do you think can stand up to the mob? Joe Biden or President Trump? That is really what this election now in my mind all boils down to,” Jordan said.  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP  "Where does it end? Where does it stop? No one is safe with the mob and that's why it is so important that we stand up now before this gets even more out of conrol. Stand up and say it is wrong, it should not happen, this politically correct cancel culture left-wing mob is exactly wrong for this country and this election is when we can stand up and say 'we're not going to tolerate it.'"
Lauren Boebert, Gun-Rights Activist, Upsets House G.O.P. Incumbent in Colorado|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/30/us/lauren-boebert-colorado.html|Lauren Boebert, a political novice and gun-rights activist who has spoken approvingly of the pro-Trump conspiracy theory QAnon, claimed an upset primary victory on Tuesday night against Representative Scott Tipton of Colorado, unseating a five-term incumbent endorsed by President Trump.  Ms. Boebert, 33, is the owner of Shooters Grill in Rifle, Colo., and has gained attention in recent days for defying pandemic restrictions by keeping her restaurant open. She previously grabbed headlines for confronting a former Democratic presidential candidate, Beto O’Rourke, over his pledge during an appearance in the state to seize assault rifles.  “I am here to say: Hell, no, you’re not,” Ms. Boebert, who encourages employees in her restaurant to openly carry guns, told him during a town-hall meeting in Aurora. Gun rights have been at the center of the state’s political clashes for years after new restrictions imposed after mass shootings.  More recently, Ms. Boebert defied state orders against opening her restaurant until the Garfield County sheriff obtained a cease-and-desist order against her.
As The Dust Settles On The Tipton-Boebert Upset, Politicos Ponder: How Did She Beat A Five-Term Congressman?|https://www.cpr.org/2020/07/03/as-the-dust-settles-on-the-tipton-boebert-upset-politicos-ponder-how-did-she-beat-a-five-term-congressman/|After representing Colorado for a decade in Congress, Republican Rep. Scott Tipton was widely expected to win his primary race against 33-year-old political novice Lauren Boebert.  Instead, the mother of four who owns a restaurant known for its pistol-packing servers, was voters’ choice by a 9-point margin.  “I didn't think he was going to lose this race,” said former Colorado Congressman Republican Scott McInnis, now the chair of the Mesa County Board of County Commissioners. “I also learned a long time ago, spunk is a pretty deadly weapon. And if you have an opponent that’s got a lot of spunk, you better make sure you've got your radar on, 24 hours.”  Tipton’s loss adds even more unpredictability for both parties as they compete for the vast and mostly rural district that covers a large swath of the Western Slope and part of southern Colorado. Boebert will face off against Democrat Diane Mitsch Bush of Steamboat Springs, a former state lawmaker who ran two years ago and lost to Tipton.  Reflecting on Tuesday’s outcome, some Republicans said because no-one thought Tipton had anything to worry about in the primary, he was more focused on the general election and didn’t campaign as much as he should have. In June, Tipton was a no-show for an online forum hosted by the La Plata League of Women Voters, leaving the virtual stage to Boebert, Mitsch Busch, and James Iacino, another Democratic candidate.  Tipton’s campaign would not comment for this story. On Tuesday night, he released a statement, congratulating Boebert and saying the voters have decided.  “I was shocked. I mean, the President had supported Tipton. There just really wasn't anything there that I thought was a red flag for Tipton to lose that kind of primary support,” said Republican state Rep. Colin Larson, who won his own competitive primary race in Jefferson County. “I don't understand why the voters of Pueblo and Durango and Grand Junction decided the person that has represented them for a decade, why they just decided that they didn't like him anymore.”  Boebert gained statewide attention this spring not for anything directly connected to her campaign, but for squaring off against public health officials over coronavirus prevention measures. She opened her restaurant, Shooter’s Grill, to in-person dining in defiance of the Garfield County health department’s “safer at home” order. Boebert said the danger from the coronavirus “does not justify the economic suicide that is taking place.”  Tyler Sandberg, a GOP political consultant, said for someone who is new to politics, Boebert managed to hit some really important topics for Republican primary voters, and her actions resonated. “You constantly heard stories about small business owners, worried about running out of their life savings. Businesses they had put decades into building were crumbling.”  Sandberg said he also thinks the district’s voters wanted something different. “To me, I see that correlation of voters really being willing to invest in new voices and new leadership.”  McInnis believes some of the factors that lead to Tipton’s defeat were also outside of his control: the country’s increasing partisanship, bitterness and upheaval. “You can be doing a great job and have people just kind of [think], ‘it is time for a change.’”  As she moves into the general election, Boebert may have to reckon with some of her past comments. In May she told the host of a YouTube show that she hopes QAnon is true. The conspiracy theory posits, among many other things, that president Trump is trying to break up an international ring of child sex traffickers run by leading Democrats.  While Boebert stopped short of saying she believes in QAnon, she told the host, “everything that I have heard of this movement is only motivating and encouraging and bringing people together stronger, and if this is real, then it could be really great for our country."  Comments like that, and the fact that she’s untested in electoral politics, has some Republicans worried the seat is in jeopardy.  “You have to be able to attract unaffiliated and more moderate voters to win the district,” said one Republican consultant who is concerned that her actions in the race could negatively impact voters’ perceptions and hurt GOP chances in other competitive seats such as the U.S Senate.  However, President Trump has been quick to embrace Boebert, tweeting out his congratulations shortly after her win.
Congressional Candidate Lauren Boebert To Attend July 4th Celebration With Trump|https://denver.cbslocal.com/2020/07/02/lauren-boebert-july-4th-donald-trump-mt-rushmore/|Memorial Tournament Is 'The Ultimate PGA Tour Event,' Says CBS Sports' Frank NobiloThe Memorial Tournament welcomes Tiger Woods, Bryson DeChambeau and the world's top-five players for another PGA Tour event at Muirfield Village.  'World TeamTennis Comes Down To One Point On Any Given Match': Former USTA President Katrina Adams Discusses Her Role As Analyst With WTT For CBS Sports NetworkThe former President, Chairperson and CEO of the USTA discusses the 2020 World TeamTennis season and what she has liked about it so far.  Denver Broncos Announce Limited Seating, Break Down Options For Season Ticket Holders During 2020 SeasonThe Denver Broncos notified fans Wednesday that Empower Field at Mile High will not be able to be at full capacity in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Coloradans Bet More Than $25 Million During First Month Of Legal Sports GamblingEven without many of our favorite sports, Coloradans still placed more than $25 million in bets during the first month of legal sports gambling.  Jokic Back With Nuggets; 'Surprised' By Positive Coronavirus TestNuggets center Nikola Jokic is in Orlando with the team.  Broncos News: Justin Simmons Signs Franchise Tag TenderBroncos safety Justin Simmons signed his franchise tag tender, a source confirmed to CBS4 on Tuesday.
Primary recap: Gun rights activist defeats Trump-backed incumbent in Colorado|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBX_KdsDpYY|
GOP Candidate Is Latest Linked to QAnon Conspiracy Theory|https://www.snopes.com/ap/2020/07/02/gop-candidate-is-latest-linked-to-qanon-conspiracy-theory/|DENVER (AP) — When Lauren Boebert was asked in May about QAnon, she didn’t shy away from the far-right conspiracy theory, which advances unproven allegations about a so-called deep state plot against President Donald Trump that involves satanism and child sex trafficking.  “Everything that I’ve heard of Q, I hope that this is real because it only means that America is getting stronger and better, and people are returning to conservative values,” she said.  At the time, Boebert was on the political fringe, running a campaign largely focused on her gun-themed restaurant and resistance to coronavirus lockdowns. She is now on a path to becoming a member of Congress after upsetting five-term Rep. Scott Tipton in Tuesday’s Republican primary. The GOP-leaning rural western Colorado district will likely support the party’s nominee in the November general election.  Boebert is part of a small but growing list of Republican candidates who have in some way expressed support for QAnon. They include Marjorie Taylor Greene, who is advancing to a runoff for a congressional seat in a GOP-dominated Georgia congressional district, and Jo Rae Perkins, the party’s Senate nominee in Oregon.  The trend pales in comparison to previous movements that have swept Capitol Hill, such as the 2010 tea party wave. But at a time when the GOP is facing steep headwinds among women and in the suburbs, the QAnon candidates could add extra headaches.  “The more times you have candidates who are crazy, the more it hurts your brand,” said John Feehery, a Republican consultant and former House leadership aide. “The trick is for Republicans to embrace the anti-establishment mood without embracing the crazy.”  Republican leaders have distanced from some candidates, such as Greene. But now that Boebert is the nominee in Colorado, the GOP made clear Wednesday it would support her.  “Lauren won her primary fair and square and has our support,” Minnesota Rep. Tom Emmer, the chair of the House Republican campaign arm, said in a statement. “This is a Republican seat and will remain a Republican seat as Nancy Pelosi and senior House Democrats continue peddling their radical conspiracy theories and pushing their radical cancel culture.”  Boebert’s campaign manager, Sherronna Bishop, said the campaign was ignoring the headlines tying the candidate to the QAnon conspiracy.  “We know exactly what we’re about and that’s the Constitution and freedom,” Bishop said. “We are not into conspiracy theories.”  She said Boebert was not available for an interview until Sunday because she is traveling to South Dakota for a Bikers for Trump event near Trump’s Independence Day rally at Mount Rushmore.  The QAnon theory has ricocheted around the darker corners of the internet since late 2017. It is based around an anonymous, high-ranking government official known as “Q” who purportedly tears back the veil on the “deep state,” often tied to satanism, child molestation and even cannibalism.  Trump has retweeted QAnon-promoting accounts. Followers flock to Trump’s rallies wearing clothes and hats with QAnon symbols and slogans.  Republican voters may not know the details of the theory, but they’ve become more amenable to the notion of conspiracies because Trump exploited them during his own campaign and administration, said Joseph Uscinski, a political scientist at the University of Miami who studies conspiracy theories.  “Just as that worked for him, there are going to be copycats, too,” he said.  Uscinski stressed that Democrats also believe in conspiracy theories — he cited Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ insistence that the 1% run politics and that his 2016 losses in Democratic presidential primaries showed the system was “rigged.”  And Uscinski said there’s nothing in the QAnon theory that’s inherently conservative, and Boebert was nowhere near as enthusiastic about it as other candidates.  For example, Perkins, the GOP’s Senate nominee in Oregon, repeated the QAnon oath in a recent video. She took down a video backing the movement, then said she’d been duped by her own campaign staff and supported it again.  Still, Perkins has almost no chance in reliably Democratic Oregon. Boebert is running in a seat that leans Republican and stands the best chance of any of the candidates who have flirted with QAnon to end up in Congress.  “I shouldn’t have to guess if my congressperson believes in satanic, baby-eating child molesters,” Uscinski said.  Boebert owns Shooters Grill, an eatery where servers carry handguns in the aptly named western Colorado town of Rifle. She ended up on Fox News after confronting Democratic presidential hopeful Beto O’Rourke in a Denver suburb last year over his plans to confiscate assault-style rifles.  Boebert’s sole known comments on QAnon came during a May interview with internet journalist Ann Vandersteel, whose site highlights other conspiracy theories. Vandersteel asked Boebert what she thought of “the Q movement.”  Boebert said she knew about it from her mother, who was “a little fringe.” Pressed, she added, “If this is real, it could be really great for our country.”  Some Republican candidates have referred to the conspiracy theory in social media posts but say they’re not believers. Angela Stanton-King, the GOP’s nominee in Georgia’s solidly Democratic 5th Congressional District, said in a statement that a post linking to a QAnon video on Instagram that begins: “This would explain why they tried so hard to make us hate him…” was just questioning the movement. She also said that her use of QAnon hashtags in tweets didn’t mean she was an adherent, explaining she peppers her social media with various hashtags to extend her reach.  Meanwhile, in Washington, the defeated Tipton was seen Wednesday sitting alone in the massive Capitol Rotunda. He said his campaign focused on the district’s issues and didn’t attack his opponent.  Asked if, in retrospect, he believed that was a winning tactic, he said: “I don’t know. Maybe we’re in a different world right now.”
Mississippi lawmakers pass resolution paving way to remove Confederate symbol from state flag|https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2020/06/27/mississippi-flag-vote/|After the votes were announced in each chamber, applause broke out. Earlier in the day, Gov. Tate Reeves (R) indicated that he will sign a bill to change the flag if one reaches his desk, a shift from his previous position that voters should decide whether to change the flag via referendum.  Lawmakers on Saturday delivered impassioned speeches for and against abandoning the Confederate symbol, which has endured previous challenges and continued to draw ardent defenders who see it as an important piece of the state’s past. Many described the day in historic terms, invoking the Founding Fathers, their own family histories and future generations in explaining their votes.  AD  AD  Rep. Edward Blackmon Jr. (D), who is black, said that he had overcome the feelings he had seeing the flag growing up but that it represents a painful history. He said his children and now his grandchildren have had questions about what it represents and called for a flag that would stir pride in all of the state’s residents — nearly 40 percent of whom are black.  “It ought to be something that we all feel a sense of pride that when we see it, we know that that’s about us,” he said. “Not just some of us.”  House Speaker Pro Tempore Jason White (R) also argued forcefully against keeping the flag, saying that “whether we like it or not,” it had come to be viewed as a symbol of hate.  AD  “By changing our flag, we don’t abandon our founding principles,” he said. “We embrace them more fully by doing what is right. We’re not moving further away from our Founding Fathers’ visions. We’re moving closer to them. We’re not destroying our heritage; we’re fulfilling it.”  AD  Several legislators continued to argue that the fate of the flag should be left to voters.  Sen. Chris McDaniel (R), one of the most vocal opponents of the measure, described attempts to change it as part of an effort to challenge the founding values of the country, warning that the American flag was next. He said voters should be allowed to decide, adding: “I don’t see how that makes me a racist. I don’t see how that makes me a terrible human being.”  Saturday’s vote was a procedural measure necessary so that legislators could consider a bill changing the flag. That measure, which requires a simple majority rather than a two-thirds vote, seems likely to pass and could be debated as early as Sunday.  AD  It calls for the immediate removal of the existing flag and the creation of a commission to design a new one. The legislation stipulates that the words “In God We Trust” be included in the new flag and that it not include the Confederate battle flag.  AD  The new version would go before voters for approval in November. If voters rejected the proposed flag, the commission would create a new one meeting the same requirements.  The debate has raged in recent weeks over the continued presence of the Confederate symbol — 13 white stars atop a blue X with a red background — on the upper-left corner of the Mississippi flag.  Adopted almost 30 years after the end of the Civil War, the banner has continued to fly despite years of criticism over its symbology and previous attempts to change it. In 2001, Mississippians voted 2-to-1 to keep it.  AD  That same year, the only other state whose flag bore the Confederate battle emblem, Georgia, removed it following a legislative showdown. The design had been adopted in 1956, after the Supreme Court ruled in Brown v. Board of Education to desegregate schools.  AD  That left Mississippi alone in continuing to fly the battle emblem.  But as part of a new, heightened focus on Confederate symbols across the nation, some of the state’s legislators and institutions have come out against the flag for the first time. Among those now opposing the flag are multiple legislators from both parties, state universities and prominent members of their athletic departments, the Mississippi Historical Society, Walmart and the Mississippi Baptist Convention.  AD  Some of the pressure has been financial, with the Mississippi Economic Council arguing that the state must show it is “open for business to everyone.” The group launched a campaign called “It’s Time” in support of changing the flag, taking out full-page ads in state newspapers. More than 100 business leaders supported the push, the council said.  AD  And the NCAA on June 19 announced a ban on hosting championship events in states where the Confederate symbol “has a prominent presence” — a measure that applied only to Mississippi.  As the pressure mounted, Reeves went from saying Wednesday that there was “an effort underway across the country to erase our nation’s history” and that a veto “would be pointless” to a Saturday statement that he would sign a bill removing the symbol.  In that statement, he said it was time “to resolve that the page has been turned.”  “We should not be under any illusion that a vote in the Capitol is the end of what must be done — the job before us is to bring the state together,” Reeves said, “and I intend to work night and day to do it.”
Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves signs bill removing Confederate battle emblem from state flag|https://www.wsbtv.com/news/trending/mississippi-lawmakers-vote-remove-confederate-battle-emblem-state-flag/FLP7BABLFVAVVAI2NEMOFXOQUM/|The legislature has been deadlocked for days as it considers a new state flag. The argument over the 1894 flag has become as divisive as the flag itself and it’s time to end it.  If they send me a bill this weekend, I will sign it. pic.twitter.com/bf3vyzuObt
Colorado Saw Record Voter Turnout This Primary. Here Are 4 Takeaways|https://www.cpr.org/2020/07/03/colorado-saw-record-voter-turnout-this-primary-here-are-4-takeaways/|Colorado saw its primary turnout break records in Tuesday’s elections, the result of a political year like no other and the state’s recent election reforms.  Here’s what analysts and experts have gleaned from the preliminary results.  How did voters break down?  Nearly 1.6 million people voted in Colorado’s primary elections on Tuesday, weighing in on Congressional and state legislative races along with local contests.  It’s a sharp increase from the 2018 primaries, when about 1.2 million people cast ballots in primaries to select the state’s candidates for governor and other roles. That was the first state primary in which unaffiliated voters were allowed to participate.  The higher turnout could reflect greater interest in the elections during this presidential cycle.  “The political environment in Colorado is extremely charged right now. They have really lit a fire underneath a lot of people wanting to have their voice heard and participate,” said Republican pollster David Flaherty, CEO of Magellan Strategies.  The Democratic contests drew the most votes by far: about 918,000, compared to 565,000 for Republicans, according to early figures. That happened in part because unaffiliated voters are voting in much larger numbers — and they flocked to Democratic contests this year.  (Photo: Candace Di Carlo)  Higher Democratic participation could be linked to the top-of-the-ticket race between John Hickenlooper and Andrew Romanoff. Republicans were mostly deciding lower offices.  “That makes total sense. The nationally watched U.S. Senate primary was the sexiest race in town,” Republican consultant Tyler Sandberg said.  But it would also mean trouble for Republicans if unaffiliated voters — a growing faction — are getting invested in Democratic races.  “It’s also I think revealing about which party are these unaffiliated voters choosing to vote for. Where do they want to have their voice heard? At least in 2018 and 2020, it’s overwhelmingly on the Democratic side,” Flaherty said. “It opened up a door, and it’s having a bigger impact for Democratic candidates where they do need to factor that in.”  What does Colorado’s turnout mean?  Total turnout among active voters was about 43 percent, compared to 35 percent in the 2018 primaries. That’s near the top of what you’ll see nationally for primaries.  And it was especially high for Democrats, hitting nearly 60 percent as they weighed in on the Hickenlooper-Romanoff race, according to data provided by Magellan Strategies.  Participation is high in Colorado for a few reasons. Unaffiliated voters may be getting more familiar with the primaries — they were only allowed to participate in primaries starting in 2018. The state’s mail voting system also kept the voting process running smoothly despite the pandemic: more than 99 percent of ballots arrived by mail or dropoff.
Cory Gardner starts the U.S. Senate contest in negative territory. And the reason why is simple.|https://www.coloradoan.com/story/news/2020/07/02/sen-cory-gardner-behind-his-senate-race-vs-john-hickenlooper/5365340002/|John Frank and Sandra Fish  Colorado Sun  In the first half of 2017, U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner celebrated the confirmation of Colorado native Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. He introduced legislation to move the federal public lands agency to Colorado. And he sponsored a series of bipartisan bills to improve access to banking for the state’s marijuana companies and boost funding for rural hospitals.  The Republican’s poll numbers in the past four years hit their highest points that spring and summer. He topped out at 49% approval — a solid position with a disapproval rating 20 points lower.  Since then, his stock has slid precipitously, according to an analysis of survey data by The Colorado Sun. By 2019, as many Colorado voters approved of his job performance as disapproved, and now polls consistently show him in negative territory.  To political observers, the fall in the Republican senator’s approval since he took office in 2015 is pretty much traced to a single source: President Donald Trump. The controversies that surrounded the White House and the president’s confrontational style didn’t sit well with voters. Six months into his first year, Trump’s rating took the same nose dive and never fully recovered.  “In some ways Sen. Gardner is at the mercy of forces that are beyond his control,” said Ryan Winger, director of data analysis and research for Magellan Strategies, a Republican polling firm in Colorado. “When he was first elected in 2014, it was pre-Trump. It may as well have been 200 years ago in terms of the political environment.”  This story is being published partially at Coloradoan.com and in full in Saturday's Coloradoan print edition through an agreement with the Colorado Sun. Read the full story online at coloradosun.com.
Hickenlooper On His Primary Stumbles And Facing Cory Gardner: ‘I Am A Known Quantity’|https://www.cpr.org/2020/07/02/hickenlooper-on-his-primary-stumbles-and-facing-cory-gardner-i-am-a-known-quantity/|Critics also hit Hickenlooper for statements and actions they said were racially insensitive. Romanoff and national Republican groups spent millions on ads in the last weeks of the campaign attempting to capitalize on those mistakes.  “I think the election demonstrated that people know who I am and if at times I misspeak or, you know, say the wrong thing — I’m not saying that’s a good thing — what I’m saying is that people know that I have worked with this state... I am a known quantity,” Hickenlooper said.  The primary over, Hickenlooper and Gardner are already sparring over health care. In a Colorado Matters interview Wednesday, Gardner accused Hickenlooper of backing “socialized” medicine.  In a separate interview, Hickenlooper said he wants to build on the Affordable Care Act with a public option that would ultimately lead to universal care. He called Gardner’s health care record, which includes votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act, “abysmal.”  Another issue that’s likely to surface during the campaign is whether Democrats will attempt to dismantle President Donald Trump’s tax cuts. Asked whether he’d support restoring the taxes, Hickenlooper said the cuts largely benefitted the wealthy and that small business didn’t get enough COVID-19 relief funds.  Pressed on whether he’d undo the cuts, Hickenlooper responded: “I’m not going to say that we’ll automatically get rid of everything but a large part of those tax cuts went to, you know, large corporations, the wealthiest individuals who really didn’t need them. And I think certainly that those parts of the tax cuts should certainly be repealed.”  Interview Highlights  On his health care plan:  “I believe we build on the foundations of the Affordable Care Act, not perfect, but I think we can improve it. I think we need to get to universal coverage and probably the fastest, most effective way to do that is by creating a public option of some sort, a sliding-scale public option. But what we really gotta focus on is controlling the cost of healthcare … you know, there's a runaway inflation in prescription drugs and insurance premiums and copays. I mean, that's where, once we get universal coverage, that should be our highest priority.”  On the lack of COVID-19 relief for small businesses:  “Look at how COVID-19 has hit the United States compared to what’s happening in the rest of the world and look at the consequences to our economy. And the relief that has been provided .. it’s notorious that it has not gone to the smallest businesses. It has largely gone to large companies, businesses that had other resources. I mean over a hundred publicly traded companies received part of that first CARES Act.”  On how he’ll heal divisions among Democrats after the primary:  “I’m going to reach out to every supporter of Andrew Romanoff and make the case that I’ve supported universal health care, that health care is a right, not a privilege. I believe that climate change is a grave existential threat to the planet … I need to go out and talk to those supporters of Andrew Romanoff and really listen to them and hear them and hopefully persuade them that we agree on far more than what we disagree on.”  Read The Transcript:  Ryan Warner: Governor, welcome back to the program.  John Hickenlooper: Always a pleasure to be back on.  RW: Senator Gardner and the GOP were running ads against you before the primary highlighting how you've previously said you didn't think you'd make a good Senator, picking up on your ethics violations, being held in contempt by the ethics commission. Do you enter the general election as a wounded candidate?  JH: No. No. When you win an election by 20 points, it's hard to say that you're wounded, but let me, let me be clear. The Republicans and the dark money, Republican groups from Washington, and Senator Gardner has been a vocal in support of these efforts, they've only just begun. They're going to keep attacking me. They're going to twist and distort my record. They're going to attack, you know, my reputation every way they can, because you know, Senator Gardner really can't run on his record. I mean, he supported Donald Trump a hundred percent of the time. He has frequently reiterated the fact that he supports the lawsuit to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. He doesn't think universal background checks really work. I mean, I can go down the whole list, but we expect the attacks just to continue. And you know Coloradans showed last night that they're not going to buy into this defamation and, and, and assassination of character.  RW: Among the successes that Senator Gardner is likely to point to in the general election, helping get the Great American Outdoors Act passed, helping bring the Bureau of Land Management headquarters to Grand Junction; Space Command to Colorado Springs; equipment to fight COVID-19 for which he was praised by Governor Polis. It's not that he has nothing to run on. I think as you suggested earlier, what's your message to say he's not right for Colorado right now.  JH: Well, I think that the, his record on healthcare is abysmal. I mean, he supports the lawsuit that would end the affordable care act for all intents and purposes.  RW: He actually wouldn't be pinned down on the question of the Trump Administration's brief with the Supreme Court to dismantle the ACA.  JH: Well, he said before he does, so maybe he's changed and hasn't figured out how to, how to talk about it yet. But I mean, we have 2.4 million Coloradans that have preexisting medical conditions and they have protections as part of the Affordable Care Act. If Senator Gardner wants to maintain those protections and doesn't support that lawsuit, was he willing to say that to you?  RW: He was not.  JH: Again, I think if you want to run on your record, lay out what things you do support. Did you discuss the CORE Act with him, which is, you know, and again, I'm a, the Land and Water Conservation Fund is important. And I support that bill, but the CORE Act is 400,000 acres of Colorado land, some of which, you know, at least I've been led to that, that Senator Gardner thinks should be sold or leased off to the highest bidder. Again, I'm not sure that's where most Coloradans are in terms of public lands.  RW: In my conversation with Senator Gardner, he characterized your position on healthcare as socialized medicine. Does that label fit your health policy?  JH: Well, you know, it's funny, I just came through a primary, where I was attacked for not supporting, you know, larger government involvement in healthcare. I've been, I think, very consistent. And I think, you know, this that I believe we build on the foundations of the Affordable Care Act, not perfect, but I think we can improve it. I think we need to get to universal coverage and probably the fastest, most effective way to do that is by creating a public option of some sort, a sliding scale public option. But what we really gotta focus on is controlling the cost of healthcare is that, you know, there's a runaway inflation in prescription drugs and insurance premiums and copays. I mean, that's where, once we get universal coverage, that should be our highest priority.  RW: It was a bumpy primary for you. I mean, the ethics ruling, the ethics commission holding you in contempt, your answer that 'every life matters' when asked about Black Lives Matter. Also video of you emerged likening political life to ancient slavery. You apologized for those things, I'll say. And then just before the primary photos of you emerged in an indigenous headdress and clothed as a native woman, which was apparently penance for losing a hunt. Do we now have a solid pattern of insensitivity, John Hickenlooper?  RW: No, I don't think so. I, again, I think the election demonstrated that people know who I am and if at times I misspeak or, you know, unintentionally say the wrong thing, I'm not saying that's a good thing. What I'm saying is that people know that I have worked with this state. We were 40th in job creation. We became the number one economy in the country. We got to almost 95% healthcare coverage. We reduced the number of people without coverage, by more than two- thirds. But go down that list of accomplishments that we've done. Again, I am a known quantity. I have a relationship with the people of Colorado and, you know, the, these political attacks. I don't think we're going to, going to sell in Colorado.  RW: Our Bente Birkeland spoke with an indigenous woman who was in tears as she described, how that photo of you dressed as a native woman made her feel. Would you care to share just a few words about that?  JH: Sure. And this was a longstanding traditional hunt. The headdress was placed on my head by the hunt chief, Chief Shoyo had I not allowed him to do that he would have been offended. It was a very complicated situation, but you know, that she would feel such anguish about it is certainly not, not good, not, you know it's certainly nothing that I would well, it's nothing that I would ever do again, recognizing that I could would cause her that kind of, of anguish.  RW: I'd like to play something from voter Tyler Higaki, a 27-year-old Air Force veteran who voted for your opponent in the Democratic primary, Andrew Romanoff.  Tyler Higaki: I feel that the establishment Democrats have shoehorned another lesser-of-two-evils scenario. And I get the fact that they're relying on the whole 'Vote Blue, No Matter Who' and frankly, I'm just, I'm sick of the guilt trip.  RW: How do you respond to Romanoff supporters who are bummed out and not sure that you're the guy?  JH: Well, I'm going to reach out. And, you know, Andrew Romanoff, when he called was very gracious and he said he would work with me to unify the party in the effort to make sure that we defeat Cory Gardner in November. I'm going to reach out to every Coloradan, but I'm, I'm going to reach out to every supporter of Andrew Romanoff and make the case that, you know, I've supported universal healthcare. That healthcare is a right, not a privilege my entire life. I believe that climate change is a grave existential threat to the planet, the greatest one we've ever faced and we've got a very detailed plan of how we get to zero emissions by 2050. You know, I need to go out and talk to those supporters of Andrew Romanoff and really listen to them and hear them and hopefully persuade them that we agree on far more than, than what we disagree on.  RW: Okay. We got a little pushback from the left. How about some pushback from the right? You think President Trump has been bad for the country. You think I just want to play this from former GOP State Party Chair, Dick Wadhams.  Dick Wadhams: In terms of the Trump agenda, listen, I don't disagree that Trump is a liability, but I also know this, that when we get to specific issues, in terms of the Trump record, the tax cuts, if Hickenlooper wants to repeal the tax cuts, he is imposing a tax increase, not only on individual taxpayers, up and down the economic ladder, but also on small businesses across this country. That's one of the reasons why this economy exploded.  RW: If elected, would you seek to undo the Trump tax cuts?  JH: Well, I think those tax cuts, I mean, 83% of the benefit of those tax cuts went to the 1% wealthiest Americans. Basically, what they did in the tax code, even before COVID-19, they transferred over the course of 10 years, over one and a half-trillion dollars of debt that our children and grandchildren are going to have to pay. On top of that, after COVID-19 came in and President Trump pooh-poohed it, you know, Senator Gardner didn't say anything, but it's not going to be a big deal. We don't have to worry about it. Look at how COVID-19 has hit the United States compared to what's happened in the rest of the world and look at the consequences to our economy. And the relief that has been provided, I mean, it's notorious that it's, it has not gone to the smallest of small businesses. It has largely gone to large companies, businesses that had other resources. I mean, over a hundred publicly traded companies received part of that, that first CARES Act.  You know, I grew up in small business when I first opened my first restaurant, I'd lie awake at night trying to figure out how to make payroll. This is an experience that I don't think Mitch McConnell ever had. I don't think Cory Gardner's had it. And I don't think Donald Trump's had it. They seem immune, they seem oblivious to the struggles and the hardship that this has created for small business. I want to be part of going back and changing that.  RW: Well, I think that the point Wadhams is making though, is that a reversal of the Trump tax cuts though, you see them as being quite uneven, would affect small businesses. So are you saying that you would or would not undo the Trump tax cuts?  JH: What I'm saying is that I am going to go to bat for small businesses in the U.S. Senate.  RW: Yes or no, on the tax cuts.  JH: Well, I, again, I'm not going to say that we'll automatically get rid of everything, but a large part of, of those tax cuts went to, you know, large corporations the wealthiest individuals who really didn't need them. And I think certainly that those parts of the, of the tax cuts should certainly be repealed. So many of those people not only didn't ask them, but were to some level or another, you know, were uncomfortable with those tax cuts at that time and how clearly they favored only the wealthiest and largest corporations.  RW: To what extent do you see a victory in Colorado as related to switching Trump voters to vote for you?  JH: You know, I think that that's not the approach, and we're not going to make this just about Trump. This is a campaign against Cory Gardner a, it's a comparison of what Senator Gardner and I stand for and who will speak up to power, you know, when it begins to distort and challenge our democracy, when the very values of this country is based upon, you know, the common decency of, of the American people when that begins to get compromised.  And we're not just talking about the, you know, the lawsuit against the Affordable Care Act. I mean, what's going on in Russia right now where they're providing a bounty for the killing of American soldiers. I just don't even know what to say. And again I haven't seen Senator Gardner really call the president out on this saying, ‘hey, you cannot continue dealing with Russia as if nothing's happened.’ And I know Senator Gardner has a bill that would list Russia, as a terrorist, in alliance with terrorist countries and terrorist activities but I don't think that's enough. My argument is, this is the way Washington has worked for too long where politicians make their decisions based on staying in office. I want to go and change Washington.  RW: Governor, thanks so much for being with us.  JH: You bet, anytime. Thank you, Ryan.
Colorado progressives begrudgingly turn toward John Hickenlooper after U.S. Senate primary victory|https://www.coloradoan.com/story/news/2020/07/02/john-hickenlooper-may-have-support-some-progressives-senate-run/5365307002/|Evan Ochsner, Jesse Paul and John Frank  Colorado Sun  John Hickenlooper is now the best hope for progressive Democrats to make meaningful change in November’s election on climate change, race and health care. And they’re not too happy about it.  “At this time, the most Hickenlooper will get out of me is my vote in November,” said Tay Anderson, a Denver Public Schools board member who endorsed rival Andrew Romanoff in Tuesday’s primary. “I do not say that lightly.”  The paradox is that Hickenlooper, an establishment-backed Democrat, needs progressives who supported Romanoff as much as they need him. To defeat Republican U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner in November, Hickenlooper must coalesce support from the left side of the party — a challenge that is more important than ever given the stakes and one that may prove tough given the Democrat’s history.  The diverse coalition of environmental and social justice activists in Colorado at the core of the party have long scorned Hickenlooper and even organized protests against him at the national party convention in 2016, in large part for his close ties with the oil and gas industry. In the primary election, these activists once again shunned Hickenlooper, citing his state ethics violations and racially insensitive actions, and aligned with Romanoff, a vocal backer of the Green New Deal.  “As a moderate, he’s out of sync because as Colorado has moved to the left and not become quite the swing state — more of a liberal Democrat-leaning state — the party itself has moved to the left,” Floyd Ciruli, a University of Denver public opinion expert, said on a recent “Political Junkie” podcast.  This story is being published partially at Coloradoan.com and in full in Sunday's Coloradoan print edition through an agreement with the Colorado Sun. Read the full story online at coloradosun.com.
The electoral map just keeps getting worse for Trump|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/23/politics/trump-2020-electoral-map/index.html|(CNN) It's easy to get lost in the sea of national polls -- all of which show former Vice President Joe Biden with high-single digit lead over President Donald Trump.  But as we learned in 2016 (and 2000!), the only count that really matters is the Electoral College.  Unfortunately for Trump, his chances of getting to the 270 electoral votes he needs to win a second term are looking, at least the moment, quite dim.  Over the past week, two major political prognosticators -- Amy Walter at the Cook Political Report and Nate Silver of 538 -- have released updated looks at the electoral map. And the picture they paint for Trump is dire.  "With just under five months until the election, President Trump is a severe underdog for re-election," writes Walter , who puts 248 electoral votes solidly or leaning to Biden and 204 solidly or leaning to Trump.  Read More
Those gun-toting homeowners in St. Louis are what gun ownership in America looks like|https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/06/29/those-gun-toting-homeowners-st-louis-are-what-gun-ownership-america-looks-like/|The man, in a pink polo shirt tucked into pressed khaki pants, held an AR-15-style rifle. His wife was more casually dressed and held a pistol. As marchers passed, they stood outside their restored 1909 mansion in defense of their house, estimated by Zillow to be worth nearly $1.7 million.  This sight of well-dressed homeowners emerging from an expensive house with firearms to stave off a peaceful protest appeared to strike many observers as incongruous. There are a slew of expectations about gun owners in the United States — rural hunters, suburban enthusiasts — but a pink-shirted lawyer emerging from a re-created Renaissance palazzo holding a long gun isn’t among them.  AD  AD  And yet, as a Post-ABC News poll from September makes clear, this combination of factors isn’t uncommon at all.  That poll dug into gun ownership in the United States and asked respondents whether anyone in their house owned a gun. Just under half of Americans said that they did, with majorities of men, whites and Southerners giving a yes answer. About half of respondents from the Midwest — into which Missouri falls, by most definitions — said that they lived in a home with a gun, too.  On other metrics, the couple would seem to diverge from the norm. They live in St. Louis, in a suburban-style neighborhood in an urban area. Both lawyers (as revealed by a later public statement), they both have graduate degrees and, one would expect, earn more than $100,000 a year. Urban residents and those with advanced degrees were least likely to live in gun households among education levels and type of community, according to our polling.  Wealthier respondents were less likely than middle-income earners to do so. But those numbers mask a more interesting detail: Wealthier Republicans and Republican-leaning independents were significantly more likely than poorer Republicans to live in a household with a gun. No party/income group was more likely to report living in a household with a gun than the wealthiest Republican leaners.  Analysis by the voter data firm L2 of public voter registration records matching the names of the couple suggests that they are most likely Republicans. (Missouri doesn’t require party affiliation when registering to vote.) The man has repeatedly donated to President Trump.  AD  AD  Through their own attorney, the couple released a statement about the incident.  “The peaceful protesters were not the subject of scorn or disdain” by the couple, it read. “To the contrary, they were expecting and supportive of the message of the protesters.” It was “actions of violence, destruction of property and acts of threatening aggression by a few individuals commingling with the peaceful protesters” that spurred their taking up arms.  The couple, the statement concluded, “want to make sure no one thinks less of [the Black Lives Matter movement], its message and the means it is employing to get its message out because of the actions of a few white individuals who tarnished a peaceful protest.”
Why Alabamians Turned on Jeff Sessions|https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2020/06/30/jeff-sessions-alabama-345067|In recent weeks, I spoke with voters and political watchers here to try to understand this shift. The easy narrative is that it’s all about Donald Trump. The president garnered 62 percent of the vote in Alabama in 2016, and he has spent years lambasting Sessions, his first U.S. attorney general, as weak and disloyal before endorsing Tuberville after the first round of the March primary. But Tuberville’s astonishing lead over a native son is partly a local story, too: a mix of football obsession, the appeal of outsider status in Alabama politics and the “winner” branding Trump has found a way to exploit, here as in many other states.  Trump’s support for Tuberville—the president plans to hold a rally in Mobile to reaffirm his endorsement—was never guaranteed to tip voters toward the coach. Trump in fact has a poor track record in Alabama, endorsing the losing side in both the primary and general election during the 2017 special election for the seat Sessions vacated when he joined the administration. Voters in this state, says Wayne Flynt, a historian and an author who has written extensively about Alabama politics, have a “kind of damn cantankerousness” and “aren’t like those other states where you have a powerful leader, and they just do what the leader says.”  While the voters I spoke to said they wouldn’t vote for Tuberville just because of Trump, there’s no denying how much the president’s criticisms of Sessions on the national stage—amplified by Trump’s Twitter feed, national and local media, and Tuberville himself—have shaped the race here, and dramatically revised some Alabamans’ opinions of one of their own.  Trump has spent years pillorying Sessions, the first U.S. senator to endorse his presidential run, for Sessions’ 2017 decision as attorney general to recuse himself from overseeing the FBI probe into potential connections between Russia and Trump’s 2016 campaign. In angry barrages before and after Sessions resigned in November 2018, the president has called him “scared stiff,” “slime,” “a disaster” and “not mentally qualified” to be the country’s top prosecutor. (Sessions’ campaign did not respond to requests for comment for this article, nor did Tuberville’s.) Choosing Sessions as attorney general, Trump said in a 2019 interview, was the “biggest mistake” of his presidency—a decision many Republicans, including in Alabama, believe built up momentum not only for the Mueller investigation but also for Trump’s impeachment.  “Recusing himself from his duties and helping the Democrats—that was enough,” says Jasper resident Johnny Burnette, who supported Sessions in prior campaigns but says he now plans to vote for Tuberville. “I like Jeff, but he messed up.”  Flowers, who switched from a Democrat to Republican in the early 1990s, told me he attended a Rotary Club meeting soon after Trump first started attacking Sessions. “People were vitriolic,” he recalls. “It was ugly, mean-spirited.”  “This constant drubbing from the president … painted a picture of [Sessions] being untrustworthy and weak,” adds Robert Blanton, chair of the department of political science and public administration at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. “He has been unable to emerge from the shadow of Trump’s criticisms.”  Sessions’ old school politics of gentility and his staunch conservative track record—which worked for him here for decades—may not be able to withstand that onslaught.    ***  Tuberville might be a political novice, but he’s not a nobody here. To appreciate how a coach could become the frontrunner in a U.S. Senate race, it helps to understand Alabama’s obsession with college football, specifically the rivalry between the state’s two largest universities that dates back to 1893. In some parts of the South, folks ask where you go to church. In other parts, it’s who’s your daddy. In Alabama, the question when people size you up is: Tigers or Tide?  Auburn fans revere Tuberville, and with good reason: He led the Tigers to six consecutive victories over Alabama’s Crimson Tide in their season-ending matchup, the Iron Bowl, and helmed an undefeated season in 2004. Even Alabama fans grudgingly admit he’s a winner. “Being a football coach in Alabama really means something, and being a very successful football coach really means a lot,” says Flynt, the historian.  And some of the skills Tuberville developed in football could serve him well in politics. Being a head coach requires complex organization and leadership. Tuberville also was considered a master recruiter of football prospects, demonstrating an ability to persuade players and their families from all walks of life to join his team.  “He’s like one of us,” says Mike Rabren, 54, a retired general contractor who now runs a hunting preserve near Auburn. “He’s a blue-jeans wearing, boot-wearing good ol’ guy. He likes to hunt. He likes to fish. He likes NASCAR.”  When Coach Tubbs, who also toyed with running for governor in 2017, declared his Senate candidacy, he already had high name recognition in the state. That helped vault him past a field that included climate-change denying Congressman Mo Brooks and Roy Moore, the former Alabama chief justice who was twice removed from office and lost a 2017 special election for the Senate seat amid allegations of improprieties with teenage girls when he was a young prosecutor. Tuberville, who received 33.4 percent of the vote in the March primary, has a strong base in rural Alabama, and has campaigned hard throughout the state, traveling with a bus festooned with a big sign reading “Tuberville + Trump 2020.”  Tuberville carries some baggage. As the head coach at Texas Tech after he left Auburn, he abandoned recruits at a dinner when the University of Cincinnati called him about coaching that team. He also was sued over his alleged involvement in a scheme that defrauded investors of $1.7 million; his co-defendant in the suit was charged and imprisoned, while Tuberville, who denied wrongdoing, settled in 2013 under undisclosed terms. But Tuberville still has the advantage of being a political outsider in a state that mistrusts politicians. That was much of Trump’s appeal in Alabama in 2016. Tuberville is riding the same wave in 2020.  “People just kind of had enough of the status quo, and that’s really what this race is all about,” says Robby Segars, 55, a commercial developer in Auburn who developed a friendship with Tuberville during his coaching years. Although Segars has voted for Sessions in the past, he now supports Tuberville.  “We need to get out of this cycle our state and government have been in for years,” adds Rabren. “We need someone who has new ideas to go up there and help Trump make a change.”  Karen Johnson, an office manager for a court reporting service in Mobile, voted for Sessions in the primary. She says she admires his integrity and appreciates his lifelong connection to the state. She’s “90 percent sure” she’ll stick with him on July 14. “If Trump says ‘no,’ that won’t make me automatically say ‘no,’” she says, even though she counts herself a Trump supporter. But she still sees Tuberville’s outsider status as an asset.  “The fact that he’s not a career politician—that’s a plus for Tuberville,” she says. “He’s not part of the swamp. He’s not part of that system, and that is appealing to me.”    ***  There are still Republican voters here who defend Jeff Sessions.  “I understand President Trump,” Joe Fesenmeier, 55, a Mobile business owner, and an avid Trump supporter, told me. “He felt betrayed by Sessions. But, by the same token, if Sessions had not recused himself, I think the Democrats would have used that.”  “I had some issues when he recused himself from the Russia investigation,” adds Johnson, the Mobile office manager. “He caused a trauma that we didn’t have to have as a nation. But I do think he did what he had to do because he did work on Trump’s campaign.”  Sessions’ base—he received 31.6 percent of the vote in the March primary—includes the kind of older, evangelical voters who backed him in the 1996, 2002, 2008 and 2014 Senate elections. But he’s not used to primary opposition. And in a state where straight-ticket voting accounts for as much as two-thirds of ballots cast, relatively few Alabamans have had to make a conscious decision to vote for Sessions in decades.  A genteel, conservative ideologue, Sessions embodies old school politics. The lifelong Republican is a party establishment figure, a former state and federal law-and-order prosecutor whose nomination to a federal judgeship in 1986 was scuttled amid allegations of racism (which he vehemently denied). Named for two Confederate figures—Jefferson Davis and Gen. P.G.T. Beauregard—Sessions champions the preservation of Confederate monuments. (Tuberville has not made an issue of this in the campaign.) And in the Age of Trump, Sessions is buttoned down, not boisterous. He simply doesn’t excite voters, Flynt says.  “We’ve passed into a new era,” he says. “The terrain has shifted, and what got him elected in the first place is no longer applicable. He’s just outlived his time.”  Amiable and outgoing, Tuberville seems to have more accurately read the shifting political and winds. “God sent us Donald Trump because God knew we were in trouble,” he says in a campaign ad that also depicts him in hunting gear and carrying a shotgun.  There’s very little policywise that differentiates Tuberville from Sessions. (“You could literally switch almost all of the text of the campaigns’ respective websites without anyone noticing,” says Blanton, the University of Alabama at Birmingham political scientist.) And both have enthusiastically embraced Trump in their campaigns (now largely virtual because of the coronavirus)—even Sessions. Tuberville has billed himself as Trump’s man from the beginning, parroting the president on immigration and other issues (even as it was Sessions who helped shape the administration’s immigration policy) and calling the mainstream media “fake news.” And while Trump has continued to hammer Sessions, the fallen attorney general, too, has voiced support for the president and his policies, constantly contrasting himself with other former administration officials who have written tell-all books after running afoul of Trump.  Still, after Trump tweeted in May imploring state voters to “not trust” Sessions because “he let our Country down,” Sessions responded with a rare rebuke. “I did my job & you’re damn fortunate I did,” he tweeted. “It protected the rule of law & resulted in your exoneration.”  Few political observers here give Sessions a strong chance to beat Tuberville and go on to face Doug Jones, a Democrat considered the nation’s most vulnerable incumbent senator, in November’s general election. Tuberville has ignored Sessions’ repeated calls for debate in the final weeks before the runoff. He seems to be trying to let the clock run out.  “Tuberville’s too smart a coach, too strategic a coach,” Flynt says. “When you are a four-term U.S. senator who has been denounced by his own party’s president and you start demanding debates, it means your campaign is on life support. Tuberville recognizes that.”
Poland's clash of values in presidential election|https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-53190016|Image copyright EPA/Getty Images Image caption Andrzej Duda (L) faces a strong challenge from Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski  Poles vote on Sunday in a presidential ballot that could place significant curbs on the power of their nationalist government.  President Andrzej Duda is an ally of the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party and if he loses, the opposition could force a big change in Polish politics.  His closest rival is the liberal, centre-right mayor of Warsaw, Rafal Trzaskowski.  Sunday's vote is expected to go to a run-off in two weeks' time.  The election is being watched closely across Europe, as Mr Duda's allies in the Law and Justice Party (PiS) have frequently clashed with the EU over their controversial reforms to the judiciary and media.  When President Duda this month condemned the promotion of LGBT rights as an "ideology" more destructive than communism, European Commission Vice-President Vera Jourova said it was "really sad" when European politicians in high office "decide to target minorities for potential political gains".  The president's main rival has promised to repair ties with Brussels.  Poland's president has the power of veto. If the next president were to use it, the governing party would not have the necessary majority in parliament to overturn it.  Why Trump likes Duda  The governing party has had more success across the Atlantic, and last Wednesday Mr Duda became the first foreign leader to visit US President Donald Trump since the coronavirus pandemic.  "He's doing a terrific job. The people of Poland think the world of him," said President Trump, in what was widely seen as a domestic boost for Mr Duda. Mr Trump said it was the third time he had hosted the Polish leader and he thought Mr Duda would "be successful" in the presidential vote.  Image copyright EPA Image caption Like Mr Trump, the Polish president also acts as commander-in-chief of the armed forces  President Trump also promised the Polish leader that some of the thousands of US troops being moved out of Germany would be sent to Poland instead.  Who will win?  If Andrzej Duda gets 50% of the vote on Sunday, he will win - but he is unlikely to achieve that. If the mayor of Warsaw attracts as much support as the opinion polls suggest, then Mr Trzaskowski will take part in a run-off that is currently too close to call.  Image copyright Reuters Image caption The election is being watched closely across Europe  The Warsaw mayor has risen fast in the polls since joining the race in May. Previously a member of Donald Tusk's Civic Platform government, Mr Trzaskowski won the capital's race for mayor in 2018 promising "Warsaw for All".  Mr Duda was originally an aide to ex-President Lech Kaczynski, the co-founder of Law and Justice who died in a plane crash. He is seen as a devout Catholic and signed pledges to prevent gay couples from marrying or adopting children.  Image copyright EPA Image caption Szymon Holownia is a well-known TV presenter and his wife Urszula is a fighter pilot in the Polish air force  There are nine other candidates in the race, including Szymon Holownia, presenter of TV show "I've got talent!" who is third in the polls. As a self-styled progressive Catholic, his voters will be key in any second round.  Other candidates include:  Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz, leader of the PSL Polish People's Party, which is seen as a rural farmers' party trying to attract city voters  Krzysztof Bosak, a far-right Eurosceptic politician who wants to bring back the death penalty  Robert Biedron, Poland's first openly gay MP who became a mayor in northern Poland; gay rights have become a key target for the Duda campaign  How coronavirus frustrated Duda  This election was due to take place in May, when Mr Duda was higher in the polls and had a better chance of winning in the first round.  Although the epidemic had not yet peaked, the government was desperate for the May vote to go ahead. It eventually backed down when a junior coalition partner joined the opposition in saying Law and Justice were putting politics before public health.  Poland has won praise from the World Health Organization (WHO) for its response to the outbreak. It imposed a strict lockdown in early March and has largely escaped the worst of the pandemic, with just over 1,400 deaths and 33,000 infections.  But the epidemic has pushed Poland's economy towards recession.  The country saw an outbreak at a coal mine in the industrial heartland of Upper Silesia earlier this month and work at a dozen mines was halted.
Trump pushes racial division, flouts virus rules at Rushmore|https://www.wvnews.com/newsfeed/politics/trump-pushes-racial-division-flouts-virus-rules-at-rushmore/image_8420d62a-d0c8-5f58-8bdd-49f5cc33f1f0.html|Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup.
Massachusetts Legislature Passes Critical Legislation to Safeguard Fall 2020 Elections|https://framinghamsource.com/index.php/2020/07/02/massachusetts-legislature-passes-critical-legislation-to-safeguard-fall-2020-elections/|The following is a press release from the Senate president’s office submitted to SOURCE media.  ***  BOSTON The Massachusetts Legislature today, July 2, passed a bill that expands voter access and ensures voters have safe voting options for all remaining 2020 elections, including the September 1, 2020 state primary and November 3, 2020 general election, in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.  An Act relative to voting options in response to COVID-19 now moves to the governor’s desk.  The legislation, for the first time in state history, would establish a vote-by-mail option and early voting period for the upcoming fall elections. In addition to those options, the bill also addresses polling place safety for those who choose to cast their ballots in person.  “The pandemic has changed many aspects of our lives, but a person’s ability to exercise their fundamental right to vote and chose their government should not be one of them,” stated Senate President Karen E. Spilka (D-Ashland).“While we continue to grapple with the ongoing pandemic, the elections bill passed today takes a historic step by allowing voters to cast their ballots by mail, vote early or to safely do so in person on election day. I am proud of the path we have charted with this bill as the Senate has always championed greater participation in our democracy. I would like to extend a heartfelt thanks to our clerks, election officials and poll workers across our state for ensuring the integrity of our elections and their commitment to democracy. I would also like to thank all who have collaborated on this urgent matter including my colleagues, Senators Finegold, Creem and Rodrigues as well as House Speaker DeLeo and his members for their hard work in advancing this bill.”  “Voting and public health don’t need to conflict. The bill passed by the Legislature gives voters concerned about COVID-19 a number of choices on how they want to perform their civic duty of voting,” said House Speaker Robert A. DeLeo (D-Winthrop). “I thank the Senate President, Leader Moran, Chairs Michlewitz and Lawn, Senator Finegold and my colleagues in the Legislature in passing this bill.”  “I’d like to thank my fellow conferees, my House co-Chair Representative Lawn, Senate President Spilka and Chairman Rodrigues for their dedication to upholding safe and accessible elections in the Commonwealth. We started this process with the goal to make voting easier during COVID-19 and this bill does just that by providing voters with options,” said Senate Election Laws Committee Chair Barry Finegold (D-Andover). “For the first time ever in Massachusetts, voters can vote by mail and vote early in both the 2020 primary and general elections. In-person voting on election day remains an option and is made safer in this legislation. The bill equips clerks with the tools they need to count ballots expeditiously and adapt to these election advancements.”  “This bill is essential to the operation and integrity of democracy in the Commonwealth during this public health crisis. I’d like to thank Speaker DeLeo, my co-Chair Senator Finegold,as well as my fellow conferees, Leader Moran, Chairman Michelwitz, and membership for their commitment to safeguarding the health and rights of our citizens during the upcoming 2020 elections,” said Representative John Lawn, Co-Chair of the Joint Committee on Election Laws (D-Watertown). “I am truly proud of the team effort that has led us to the finish line to pass this comprehensive legislation, which will provide many fair, safe and accessible options to voters and ensure that all voices are heard.”  “Strong voter participation is central to our democracy and we cannot allow the Covid-19 pandemic to prevent people from exercising this fundamental right,” said Senate Majority Leader Cindy Creem (D.Newton). “The provisions of this bill will ensure that voters can exercise that right in a manner that is safe, secure and accessible.  The components of the bill are as follows:  Implements an early vote-by-mail system: An application to receive an early voting ballot for the primary will be mailed to all registered voters by July 15, 2020. The Secretary will then mail another application for the general election by September 14, 2020. Both applications and ballots will have postage costs already paid for.  Ballots postmarked on or before November 3, 2020 will be counted until Friday November 6, 2020 at 5.PM. Applications for early voting and absentee voting must be received 4 business days before the election, by Wednesday August 26 2020 (for the primary) and Wednesday Oct. 28 2020.  Creates early voting for the primary and expands early voting periods: For the first time in Massachusetts, early voting will be available for the state primary, and will take place from Saturday, August 22, 2020 through Friday, August 28, 2020. Early voting for the general election is scheduled to take place from Tuesday, October 17, 2020 to Friday, October 30, 2020.  Makes in-person voting safer and more efficient: The bill allows municipalities, with proper notice, to consolidate polling places and eliminate the check-out table at these locations, allowing for a more efficient process and fewer poll workers. It also expands who is eligible to serve as a poll worker, knowing that many current volunteers are seniors who may feel less comfortable working in public during COVID-19.  Provides tools to assist clerks: Acknowledging the increased burden these options may place on municipalities and clerks, the bill also provides for several accommodations to make the logistics of processing votes easier. The legislation allows for tabulating ballots prior to election day, and it offers pre-addressed envelopes to voters, so their applications go directly to their clerk’s office.  Tasks the Secretary of State with creating an online portal and promoting voting options: To make it as easy as possible for people to apply for general election early voting, the bill requires Secretary Galvin’s office to create an online portal not later than October 1, 2020. Electronic applications for early voting will be available for the general election, and if feasible, for the primary election.  The bill also requires the Secretary of State to conduct a public awareness campaign to inform and notify voters of the many options available to cast a vote in upcoming 2020 elections.    “This election reform package will ensure that the voters of the Commonwealth have safe and easy access to the ballot box throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Representative Aaron Michlewitz, Chair of the House Committee on Ways & Means (D-Boston). “By expanding mail in ballot and early voting options, these measures will safeguard our elections and will guarantee that our democratic process will not be hampered by this public health crisis.”  “Our electoral process must have the resiliency to adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic without pitting voter participation against public health,” asserted Senate Minority Leader Bruce Tarr (R-Gloucester). “This bill responds to that need with important tools to meet the task at hand, choosing our elected officials.”  “Given the continued uncertainty surrounding the novel coronavirus, it’s important that Massachusetts residents be given multiple options to safely exercise their right to vote and make sure their voice is heard,” said House Minority Leader Bradley H. Jones, Jr. (R-North Reading). “This legislation allows individuals to choose the voting method they feel most comfortable with so they can take steps to ensure their personal health and safety is not compromised.”
Bill to improve cell phone service in western Massachusetts|https://www.wwlp.com/news/state-politics/bill-to-improve-cell-phone-service-in-western-massachusetts/|BOSTON (WWLP) – State senators have been debating two huge spending bills, one of which is known as the Government Bond Bill.  The bill would direct $10 million to improving cell phone service in rural areas.  Residents who live in the parts of western Massachusetts without cell phone service could benefit the most. Residents in the eastern part of the state, don’t often have to deal with dropped calls or little cell service but Pittsfield State Senator Adam Hinds told 22News, that’s an issue that his constituents worry about on a daily basis.  “If you’re on the side of the road in an area and say you’ve been in an accident, god forbid and you need to make a phone call and suddenly you can’t, it’s a real issue, we have houses that don’t have cell phone coverage,” Senator Hinds said.  Yesterday state senators also passed a supplemental budget, a $1.1 billion spending bill which covers the costs related to Covid-19. That money will be given to child care centers, emergency workers, and small businesses.  The good news, is that a majority if not all of the funding in the supplemental budget will be reimbursed by the federal government.
Massachusetts Legislature Passes Vote By Mail Bill|https://boston.cbslocal.com/2020/07/03/massachusetts-vote-by-mail-bill-passes/|Memorial Tournament Is 'The Ultimate PGA Tour Event,' Says CBS Sports' Frank NobiloThe Memorial Tournament welcomes Tiger Woods, Bryson DeChambeau and the world's top-five players for another PGA Tour event at Muirfield Village.  Patriots, Joe Thuney Don't Reach Long-Term Deal Before Wednesday's DeadlineWednesday's 4 p.m. deadline day for Joe Thuney and the New England Patriots to reach a long term deal came and went with no agreement.  David Pastrnak Facing Quarantine Flow Dilemma: Keep It Or Cut It?Like many people with newly coiffed heads of hair, David Pastrnak is facing an internal debate as he heads back to his workplace: Keep the curls, or chop them off.  Celtics' Kemba Walker Misses Another Practice With Left Knee InjuryKemba Walker's knee has been bothering him since the All-Star break, and unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be any end in sight.  'World TeamTennis Comes Down To One Point On Any Given Match': Former USTA President Katrina Adams Discusses Her Role As Analyst With WTT For CBS Sports NetworkThe former President, Chairperson and CEO of the USTA discusses the 2020 World TeamTennis season and what she has liked about it so far.
Massachusetts vote-by-mail bill heads to Gov. Charlie Baker’s desk|https://www.masslive.com/coronavirus/2020/07/massachusetts-vote-by-mail-bill-heads-to-gov-charlie-bakers-desk.html|An $8 million voting reform bill that would allow residents to vote by mail in this year’s state primary and general elections because of the coronavirus pandemic is heading to Gov. Charlie Baker’s desk.  Senators approved the legislation Thursday after it came out of a conference committee, where lawmakers reconciled the differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill.  “For the first time ever in Massachusetts, voters can vote by mail and vote early in both the 2020 primary and general elections. In-person voting on election day remains an option and is made safer in this legislation,” Senate Election Laws Committee Chair Barry Finegold, an Andover Democrat, said in a statement Thursday night. “The bill equips clerks with the tools they need to count ballots expeditiously and adapt to these election advancements.”  The House approved the final iteration of the bill on Tuesday. Rep. Aaron Michlewitz, a Boston Democrat who leads the House Ways & Means committee, said the legislation “will ensure that the voters of the Commonwealth have safe and easy access to the ballot box throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.”  House and Senate minority leaders also described the legislation as a necessary adjustment during the coronavirus pandemic.  “This legislation allows individuals to choose the voting method they feel most comfortable with so they can take steps to ensure their personal health and safety is not compromised,” said House Minority Leader Bradley Jones, a North Reading Democrat.  Massachusetts residents should expect to be able to vote by mail in a general election for the first time in state history, lawmakers say as they move closer toward getting voting legislation to the governor’s desk.  Under the bill, Secretary of State William Galvin’s office must mail out applications to households so voters can request a mail-in ballot. Galvin’s office must send out applications for the primary by July 15 and for the general election by Sept. 14. The secretary’s office would have to conduct a public awareness campaign.  Clerks would need to receive applications for early voting and absentee voting by four business days before the election, according to the bill. The mail-in ballots themselves would need to be postmarked on or before Nov. 3 to be counted for the general election. Clerks would continue to accept them until 5 p.m. Nov. 6.  The legislation also requires polling places to keep voting booths far apart to prevent the spread of the coronavirus and implements early voting for the Sept. 1 primary, among other provisions.  Massachusetts is one of at least 13 states weighing bills on absentee ballots and mail voting during the coronavirus pandemic, according to a tally by the National Conference of State Legislatures.  While the number of coronavirus cases continues to decline, voting rights advocates and lawmakers say the legislation is necessary to protect voters if the state sees a surge of cases in the fall or if voters are still deterred by the threat of contracting the virus.  The Election Modernization Coalition, a group of voting rights advocacy groups, called on Gov. Charlie Baker to sign the bill in a letter shared Thursday.  “Our elections officials need to prepare for a surge in mail ballots and applications, and they will need all the time available to recruit and train adequate poll workers so that poll closures do not create an additional barrier to Bay Staters participating in our elections,” the letter states.  Related Content:
Senate passes $1.7 billion bill to support racial equity, early education and remote learning opportunities|https://www.wwlp.com/news/massachusetts/senate-passes-1-7-billion-bill-to-support-racial-equity-early-education-and-remote-learning-opportunities/|BOSTON (WWLP) – The Massachusetts State Senate passed a $1.7 billion General Government Bond Bill Thursday which focuses on capital improvements.  According to a news release sent to 22News from the Office of Senate President Karen E. Spilka, the bill will focus on the following:  To improve government infrastructure  Empower communities disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system  Support early education and care providers with safe reopening during the COVID-19 pandemic  Expand equitable access to remote learning opportunities for vulnerable populations across the Commonwealth  “As we adjust to a world transformed by a global pandemic and address systemic racial  inequities across our system, the Senate stands committed to supporting existing programs and  finding new ways to invest in underserved and underrepresented populations. Among other things, I am pleased to see this bill authorizes additional supports for childcare providers. I am equally proud to see it redirects resources to a flexible program aimed at supporting communities of color. I would like to thank Senator Michael Rodrigues and my colleagues for their input and hard work in advancing these priorities,” Senate President Karen E. Spilka said.  According to the release, the bond bill authorizes $50M in new economic empowerment and  community reinvestment capital grants to support communities disproportionately impacted by  the criminal justice system with access to economic and workforce development opportunities.  The bill also authorizes capital investments to ensure accountability in public safety and modernize criminal justice data collection by providing $20M for a body camera grant program for police  departments and $10M for a statewide criminal justice data system modernization to help better  track racial and ethnic disparities across the judicial and public safety systems.  To ensure access to remote learning opportunities and safe access to early childcare opportunities, the bill authorizes $50M to enhance and expand access to K-12 remote learning technology, provides $25M to assist licensed early education and care providers and after school programs with capital improvements to ensure safe reopening.  The bill also addresses growing food insecurity and food supply chain needs across the  Commonwealth due to the COVID 19 pandemic, with $37M for a food security grant program to address infrastructure needs for farms, retailers, fisheries, food system businesses, and food distribution channels.  Additional components of the bond bill include:  $140M for cybersecurity upgrades to improve the Commonwealth’s technology and telecommunications infrastructure  $115M for municipal library improvements  $100M for governmental performance and informational technology infrastructure upgrades  $30M for public higher education public safety grants  $25M for fire safety equipment grants  $20M for municipal broadband access grants  $5M for the development of a common application for MassHealth enrollees to more easily access the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program  $2.9M for a public health data warehouse to track population health trends, such as COVID-19  $2.5M for implementation of an automated electronic sealing process to seal certain criminal records  The bill returns to the Massachusetts House of Representatives where a similar bill passed. The Senate expects differences between the two versions to be resolved quickly.
Trump ‘white power’ tweet set off a scramble inside the White House — but no clear condemnation|https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-white-power-tweet-set-off-a-scramble-inside-the-white-house--but-no-clear-condemnation/2020/06/29/6fd88c2c-ba21-11ea-8cf5-9c1b8d7f84c6_story.html|Senior staffers quickly conferred over the phone and then began trying to reach the president to convey their concerns about the tweet. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany, son-in-law Jared Kushner and other senior advisers spoke with president, said several people familiar with the discussions, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to share details of private conversations.  AD  Roughly three hours later, the president gave the go-ahead to delete his incendiary tweet — moved, in large part, by the public calls from Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina, the Senate’s only black Republican, to do just that, aides said.  AD  White House spokespeople said Trump didn’t hear his supporter twice shout “white power.” But neither the president nor his team publicly condemned the racist phrase, setting off another controversial news cycle for a president already struggling to unite the country amid accusations that he traffics in racist and racially inflammatory language.  Amanda Carpenter, a former aide to Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and a Trump critic who wrote a book titled “Gaslighting America: Why We Love It When Trump Lies To Us,” said the president’s unwillingness to disavow the “white power” comment was damning and more important than the belated deletion of the tweet that initially amplified the video.  AD  “What President Trump and every member of his campaign and the White House need to do is come out and say, ‘We do not want votes from people who shout “white power” or hold up white supremacist ideology, in any way, shape or form,’ ’’ Carpenter said. “Until they do that, they’re stoking this.”  AD  As protests over police brutality and racial injustice have erupted across the country in recent weeks, Trump has dialed up his inflammatory rhetoric, repeatedly turning to racist tropes.  Trump has also defended statues of Confederate generals as “beautiful” and pledged to block bipartisan efforts to rename military bases named after military leaders who fought in defense of slavery during the Civil War. Despite multiple opportunities to condemn the Confederacy or make broader appeals to racial unity, the president has declined, often taking the opposite approach.  AD  He has decried some protesters as “THUGS” and “terrorists” and threatened to unleash massive force against them, including with “vicious dogs,” recalling the brutality employed against black civil rights activists in the 1960s.  Trump has tweeted several videos of black men attacking white people in recent weeks as he has attempted to discredit the broader Black Lives Matter movement.  AD  The president’s recent inflammatory remarks build upon a long history that includes promoting the racist conspiracy theory that former president Barack Obama was not born in the United States, deriding Mexican immigrants as criminals and pushing for a ban on Muslim immigration into the United States.  AD  The steady stream of racist and offensive language from Trump has convinced many Americans that the president is a racist, according to recent polling.  And Trump has injected his derisive rhetoric into his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, twice referring to the respiratory disease that originated in China as the “kung flu.”  Lily Adams, a senior adviser to a super PAC supporting former vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, said “the fact that Donald Trump and the White House won’t even clear the bar of condemning white supremacy just shows how devoid of any morals things really have become.”  AD  Speaking on “Fox & Friends” Monday morning, McEnany said Trump hadn’t heard the “white power” shout but never condemned the language, saying, “His point in tweeting out that video was to stand with his supporters, who are oftentimes demonized.”  AD  She was more explicit during a news conference later in the day, saying that while Trump did listen to the video before sharing it on Twitter, “he did not hear that particular phrase.”  As McEnany left the White House briefing room, reporters shouted after her, asking why the president and his advisers had declined to condemn the phrase “white power” — but the question was never posed during the news conference, nor did McEnany bring it up. A senior White House official said that had McEnany been asked, she was prepared to say that of course the president condemns white power, white nationalism and racism in any form.  AD  McEnany also entered the briefing room with a set of bullet points alleging problematic statements and stances of Democrats on the issue of race, including Biden and Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee.  AD  Trump’s tweet was just the latest racial controversy that prompted Republicans to try to defend or explain away the actions of a president who once declared there were “very fine people on both sides” of a deadly white supremacist rally in Charlottesville.  Paris Dennard, the senior communications adviser for black media affairs at the Republican National Committee, argued that people should focus not on Trump’s original tweet, but on the fact that he eventually took it down.  “Deleting the tweet was a clear sign that President Trump did not agree with the comment, deleting the tweet was the condemnation and it was the correct and responsible action,” Dennard said. “President Trump has always denounced and condemned racism, bigotry and violence as a private citizen, candidate and President of the United States. I am more concerned at the fact that the media is not asking Team Joe Biden to condemn his long history of very bigoted, offensive and racist comments all over social media.”  AD  AD  Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), when asked about Trump’s decision to share the video, said he believed the White House explanation that the president didn’t realize what he was promoting.  “I think that — how I have observed and sometimes do things without listening to every word — that that’s not impossible, and I think he showed his sincerity by withdrawing,” Grassley said.  The Villages Republican Club said in a tweet that it was “appalled” by the turn of events.  “In the video a man was yelling ‘White Power,’ ” the group wrote. “This is NOT what we stand for and is NOT a reflection of Village residents. We must unite as a Country!”  A spokesman for the club, John Calandro, said in an interview that there was “no justification” for the comment and that it was “disappointing” that it had been amplified to Trump’s 82 million followers.  AD  AD  “When you have a community like ours, you don’t like to have anybody cast it in a light that’s not favorable,” he said, adding that Trump continues to enjoy strong support among residents.  The Villages, where 97 percent of the population is white and less than 1 percent is black, is the kind of place where Trump’s “Make America Great Again” pitch has a specific racial appeal, said Andrew Blechman, who wrote “Leisureville: Adventures in a World Without Children,” a book about the sprawling retirement community.  “The entire place is a pantomime of a make-believe sepia-toned fantasy of ‘the way America used to be and should be’ — where white people dominate, blacks are either nonexistent or nonthreatening domestics / low-wagers, and teens go to sock hops and jerk soda,” he said in an email, adding that he was not surprised by the views expressed in the video.
'White Power' Video — and Trump Re-Tweet — Reveals Tensions in Florida Retirement Community|https://time.com/5862333/the-villages-florida-politics-trump-white-power/|(THE VILLAGES, Fla.) — There has always been a low-boil tension in The Villages retirement community between the Republican majority and the much smaller cohort of Democrats, but a veneer of good manners in “Florida’s Friendliest Hometown” mostly prevailed on golf courses and at bridge tables.  Those tensions, though, flared two weeks ago during a golf-cart parade for President Donald Trump’s birthday in which a man shouted, “White Power,” when confronted by anti-Trump protesters. A video clip of that confrontation in America’s largest retirement community was tweeted approvingly by Trump last weekend and then taken down.  Some residents say they’ve never seen anything like the politically inspired hostilities that have surfaced over the past several months.  “It’s like a powder keg here,” said resident Alan Stone. “And Trump is just stirring the pot.”  In the past, when conflicting political views came up in The Villages, residents said it was best to say, “I disagree,” and quickly change the topic. But the emphasis on good manners has been tested like never before in recent months with the spread of the new coronavirus, the resulting stock market gyrations for a population that largely lives off retirement investments, the presidential race and the calls for racial justice following the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police.  Read more: A Coronavirus Guide for Older Adults (And Their Family Advocates)  “This has been brewing. Most people kind of agree not to discuss politics … and it had been accepted that with things being so divisive, you don’t get into it,” said Catherine Hardy, chair of the Sumter County Democratic Party.  The Villages’ population of more than 120,000 residents — among the fastest growing areas in the U.S. in the past decade — is about 98% white, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. There are more than twice as many registered Republicans as registered Democrats in Sumter County, where most of The Villages is located.  An attendee wears an American flag themed shirt before a campaign rally with Sen. Marco Rubio, then a 2016 presidential candidate, at the Rohan Recreation Center in The Villages, Florida, on Sunday, March 13, 2016. Andrew Harrer—Bloomberg/Getty Images  The Trump parade occurred June 14 in the planned community immediately after a vigil was held by an African American philanthropic group to honor Floyd and the Black Lives Matter movement. Most of the attendees at the vigil had left by the start of the Trump parade, although a white woman wearing “Black Lives Matter” on her shirt shouted profanities at the Trump supporters as they drove by in golf carts. A man driving by in a golf car responded by shouting, “White Power,” a racist slogan associated with white supremacists.  “Most people, up until now, even if people felt that way, it was socially unacceptable to voice it,” Hardy said of the man’s remark. “The difference is under Trump, you can spew that hatred. What has changed is now it’s more acceptable.”  The political partisanship can now be seen in the most mundane places, said Ira Friedman, who with his wife, Ellen, have volunteered for Democratic presidential candidates during their 18 years in The Villages.  “Go to the postal station and see people picking up their mail. If they’re wearing a mask, they’re Democrats. If they’re not wearing a mask, talking to each other, bumping into each other, they’re Republicans,” Friedman said.  The flare-up at the Trump parade doesn’t represent the vast majority of residents of The Villages, although with the election year, there are some people, “who are exercised” and are becoming more vocal in expressing their views, said John Calandro, chairman of the Sumter County Republican Party.  Because of the coronavirus, more residents than usual are staying at home and watching the news, rather than going to the retirement haven’s famous happy hours and dances in its town squares, he said.  Some residents worry that the tensions of the past few months may make retirees think twice about moving to The Villages, whose founders have been longtime donors to Republicans and GOP presidential candidates. The Villages is often a popular campaign stop for GOP national and statewide candidates.  “I don’t think The Villages wants this kind of publicity,” Stone said. “People are saying, ‘What the hell is going on in The Villages?'”  But Calandro said any dissension among residents is overblown. He said when he plays golf with his Democratic friends, the biggest fights they get into aren’t about politics — they’re about who gets to take an extra putt on the green without being penalized.  “We aren’t having arguments on every street corner here,” Calandro said. “The Villages is still The Villages. We worked all of our lives to live here, and it’s a great place to live.”  Get The Brief. Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. Please enter a valid email address. Sign Up Now Check the box if you do not wish to receive promotional offers via email from TIME. You can unsubscribe at any time. By signing up you are agreeing to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Thank you! For your security, we've sent a confirmation email to the address you entered. Click the link to confirm your subscription and begin receiving our newsletters. If you don't get the confirmation within 10 minutes, please check your spam folder.  Contact us at editors@time.com.
Man who yelled ‘White Power!’ in Trump tweet is a retired firefighter|https://www.ajc.com/news/man-who-yelled-white-power-trump-tweet-retired-firefighter/sUHCTD6G3Sg8Glo76WDRAO/|“The statement made by a longtime retired employee does not reflect Miami-Dade Fire Rescue’s core values of integrity and respect for the diverse and multi-cultural community we serve. This retired employee acted as a private citizen and his views and actions are not representative of who we are and what we stand for.”  What happened  The video shows some of the town’s Democratic residents had also gathered in protest. They chanted “Racist! Racist!” as the caravan rolled by, although the context of their disapproval was unclear.  One of the anti-Trump protesters held a sign that read “Make America Sane Again,” and as Stokes’ cart approached, the unidentified man can be heard yelling “Where’s your white hood?”  TRUMPS "WHITE POWER" Tweet this morning Every news organization is talking about. He just deleted it.    LET ME REPEAT... the PRESIDENT OF THE USA JUST TWEETED this Racist video & said "Thank you to the great people of The Villages" of this guy yelling “WHITE POWER!". Disgusting! pic.twitter.com/Cgu0XiIIgL — DanielNewmaη 404-737-1636 (@DanielNewman) June 28, 2020  That’s when Stokes passes, yelling “Yeah, you got it! White Power! White Power!” while shaking his fist defiantly in the air.  “Trump 2020” and “America First” signs were affixed to Stokes’ golf cart.  The video went virtually unnoticed for about two weeks on the Villages-News.com YouTube page, according to the Herald, but it was Trump’s retweet early Sunday that ignited the firestorm.  The video has racked up about 3.2 million views since.  “Thank you to the great people of The Villages,” Trump wrote. “The Radical Left Do Nothing Democrats will Fall in the Fall. Corrupt Joe [Biden] is shot. See you soon!!!”  Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina called the video “offensive” Sunday during an interview with Jake Tapper on CNN’s “State of the Union.” The senator asked Trump to take the video off his page.  “There is no question he should not have retweeted it, and he should just take it down,” Scott told Tapper. “We can play politics with it or we can’t. I’m not going to. I think it’s indefensible. We should take it down.”  No White House condemnation  The president deleted the tweet after more than three hours, and the White House said Trump didn’t hear the racist and offensive phrases which came in the first few seconds of the footage.  “What he did see was tremendous enthusiasm from his many supporters,” the White House said in a statement.  Aides couldn’t immediately reach the president to get him to take down offensive tweet because he was on the course at his golf club and had put down his phone, according to a report by NBC News reporter Amanda Golden.  Trump's 'white power' retweet set off 'five alarm fire' in White House. Aides couldn’t immediately reach the president to get him to take down offending tweet because he was on the course at his golf club and had put down his phone, officials said https://t.co/7vGHzPPcFi — Amanda Golden (@amandawgolden) June 30, 2020  Neither Trump nor the White House has condemned Stokes words.  Asked Wednesday about whether the president would denounce the offensive remarks, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said, “The president took down that video. That deletion speaks strongly.”  The reporter then asked, “But why hasn't he denounced it?”  McEnany replied, “He deleted it. The deletion speaks for itself.”  The Miami Herald reported that it has not been able to reach Stokes for comment.  Tense mood in community  There has always been a low-boil tension in The Villages retirement community, which is also known as “Florida’s Friendliest Hometown,” according to The Associated Press.  Some residents say they’ve never seen anything like the politically inspired hostilities that have surfaced during the last several months.  “It’s like a powder keg here,” said resident Alan Stone. “And Trump is just stirring the pot.”  The Villages’ population of more than 120,000 residents — among the fastest-growing areas in the U.S. in the last decade — is about 98% white, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. There are more than twice as many registered Republicans as registered Democrats in Sumter County, where most of The Villages is located.  “Most people, up until now, even if people felt that way, it was socially unacceptable to voice it,” Catherine Hardy, chair of the Sumter County Democratic Party, said of the man’s remark. “The difference is under Trump, you can spew that hatred. What has changed is now it’s more acceptable.”
John Hickenlooper gets seven-figure boost from a mysterious super PAC ahead of next week's primary|https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/24/politics/2020-senate-elections-and-colorado-democratic-primary/index.html|(CNN) A new political group this week launched a Spanish-language ad attacking John Hickenlooper's rival in the Colorado Democratic primary, the latest sign of growing concerns about the former governor's prospects in a race that's crucial to Democratic hopes of seizing the US Senate from Republicans.  The 30-second commercial from Let's Turn Colorado Blue hits former state House Speaker Andrew Romanoff for his support of immigration bills in 2006 before concluding in Spanish that Romanoff was "Bad for us then. Bad for us now."  The group formed last week and already has plowed more than $1 million into ads attacking Romanoff, Federal Election Commission records show. The group's last-minute formation means that it will not have to disclose the source of its money before Colorado's Democratic primary on June 30.  Hickenlooper, a former two-term governor and short-lived 2020 candidate for the presidency, was considered a shoo-in for the Democratic Senate nomination before a series of stumbles in June. Hickenlooper said he "tripped" when he said that "Black Lives Matter" means that "every life matters" -- a description activists say discounts the systemic discrimination against Black people.  The Colorado Independent Ethics Commission ordered Hickenlooper to pay a $2,750 for twice violating ethics laws in 2018 by accepting a private flight and fancy dinners. And Hickenlooper apologized for resurfaced comments he made in 2014 comparing politicians to slaves being whipped to row "an ancient slave ship."  Read More
Romanoff touts endorsements ahead of primary against Hickenlooper|https://thehill.com/hilltv/rising/503885-romanoff-touts-endorsements-ahead-of-primary-against-hickenlooper|Democratic Colorado Senate candidate Andrew Romanoff touted his local endorsements in an interview with Hill.TV's "Rising" ahead of his primary on June 30 against former Gov. John Hickenlooper John HickenlooperThe Hill's Campaign Report: Key races take shape in Alabama, Texas, Maine The Hill's Campaign Report: Runoff elections in Texas, Alabama set for Tuesday The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Argentum - All eyes on Florida as daily COVID-19 cases hit 15K MORE.  Romanoff said the closer-than-expected primary race with Hickenlooper, who Washington Democrats embraced as their favored candidate for the fall, is due to a combination of voters responding to his “bold progressive call for climate action” and Hickenlooper’s own campaign woes, including a $2,750 fine over two ethics violations.  “It’s true we don’t have endorsements from D.C., but we do have about 400 county commissioners, mayors and school board members and city council members and legislators who have endorsed my campaign,” Romanoff said. “So it’s turning into a contest between Colorado and Washington. But you can’t just buy this nomination.”  Sens. Elizabeth Warren Elizabeth WarrenProgressive Mondaire Jones wins NY primary to replace Nita Lowey Dunford withdraws from consideration to chair coronavirus oversight panel Biden campaign announces second round of staff hires in Arizona MORE (D-Mass.) and Cory Booker Cory Anthony BookerThe Hill's Coronavirus Report: California backtracks on reopening as cases soar nationwide; SoapBox CEO David Simnick says nimble firms can work around supply chain chokepoints to access supplies for sanitizers and hygienic materials In politics, as in baseball, it ain't over till it's over Democrats blast Trump for commuting Roger Stone: 'The most corrupt president in history' MORE (D-N.J.) recently endorsed Hickenlooper, which Romanoff said indicated “Washington is trying to salvage” the former governor’s bid.  Warren has endorsed two progressive candidates in primaries in Kentucky and New York that will be decided on Tuesday. In one, Warren backed Jamaal Bowman, who is running against Rep. Elliot Engel (D-N.Y.). In the other, she backed Charles Booker, who is running in a Kentucky primary to take on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Addison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellSara Gideon wins Democratic race to challenge Susan Collins Schumer pushes for elimination of SALT deduction cap in next coronavirus relief bill Dunford withdraws from consideration to chair coronavirus oversight panel MORE (R-Ky.).
Supreme Court strikes down Louisiana law that would have limited state to one abortion clinic|https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/29/supreme-court-abortion-decision-louisiana-law-struck-down.html|A placard saying, Abortion is a Human Right, is seen during the "Stop The Bans Day of Action for Abortion Rights" rally in front of the Supreme Court in Washington, DC.  The Supreme Court on Monday voted 5-4 to strike down a restrictive Louisiana abortion measure in a major win for reproductive rights activists, with Chief Justice John Roberts siding with the court's four liberals.  Justice Stephen Breyer, who authored an opinion joined by his fellow Democratic appointees, wrote that the law placed an undue burden on women seeking abortions. Roberts wrote separately to say his thinking was based on the court's 2016 decision to strike down a similar law in Texas.  The case involved a Louisiana abortion law requiring doctors who provide abortions to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of their clinic. Challengers of the law alleged the restriction would limit the state to just one abortion provider at a single clinic.  Breyer wrote that the law posed a "substantial obstacle" on women and provided "no significant health-related benefits," and therefore was unconstitutional.  The dispute was the first over abortion to be argued before President Donald Trump's two appointees, Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights, which challenged the Louisiana abortion law at the top court, said in a statement that "we're relieved that the Louisiana law has been blocked today but we're concerned about tomorrow."  "With this win, the clinics in Louisiana can stay open to serve the one million women of reproductive age in the state. But the Court's decision could embolden states to pass even more restrictive laws when clarity is needed if abortion rights are to be protected," Northup said.  Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry, a Republican said in a statement that the top court had "continued its heartbreaking line of decisions that places 'access' to abortion above the health and safety of women and girls."  "It is deeply disappointing that the Chief Justice continues a pattern of inconsistent and groundless decisions," Landry said. "In his misguided effort to convince the public that the Supreme Court is not political, Justice Roberts shows how political it actually is."  Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat who voted in favor of the abortion law while in the Louisiana House of Representatives, said in a statement that he was "disappointed" with the Supreme Court's ruling but that he respected the decision "and trust that Louisiana and our nation will continue to move forward."  Anti-abortion groups immediately criticized the decision.  Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, called the ruling a "bitter disappointment."  "It demonstrates once again the failure of the Supreme Court to allow the American people to protect the well-being of women from the tentacles of a brutal and profit-seeking abortion industry," Dannenfelser said.  Dannenfelser said the Supreme Court decision "reinforces just how important Supreme Court judges are to advancing the pro-life cause" and called it "imperative that we re-elect President Trump and our pro-life majority in the U.S. Senate so we can further restore the judiciary, most especially the Supreme Court."  The case is the third in a string of major victories for liberals at the high court that have come in the midst of an election battle between Trump and presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden.  Earlier this month, Roberts joined the court's four Democratic appointees rebuffing the Trump administration's effort to terminate the Obama-era immigration program known as DACA.  Also in June, Roberts and Gorsuch sided with the four liberals in a decision that held that gay and transgender workers can't be fired on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity.  Trump campaigned on nominating justices who would "automatically" overturn the landmark abortion decision Roe v. Wade, and the Department of Justice supported Louisiana in the case.  White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany called the ruling "unfortunate."  "States have legitimate interests in regulating any medical procedure — including abortions — to protect patient safety," McEnany said in a statement. "Instead of valuing fundamental democratic principles, unelected Justices have intruded on the sovereign prerogatives of State governments by imposing their own policy preference in favor of abortion to override legitimate abortion safety regulations"  A federal judge declared the Louisiana law unconstitutional in 2017, but that decision was reversed by a panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The Supreme Court put the appeals court ruling on hold last year while it considered the case.
What Went Wrong in Brazil|https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/podcasts/the-daily/brazil-coronavirus.html|michael barbaro  From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Brazil has a long and distinguished history of navigating public health crises, until now. Ernesto Londoño on what went wrong with the coronavirus. It’s Thursday, July 2. OK, Ernesto, as we’re talking, Brazil is second only to the U.S. in cases of Covid-19. Where do we need to start to understand how we got here?  ernesto londoño  Well, Michael, while we’re seeing kind of the first concerns about coronavirus rippling beyond China, it was the farthest thing from Brazilians’ minds. You know, it’s the peak of summer in the southern hemisphere and especially in February —  archived recording [CARNIVAL MUSIC]  ernesto londoño  People are in party mode.  archived recording [CARNIVAL MUSIC]  ernesto londoño  You know, all across Brazil in the big cities, people are celebrating Carnival, which turns into this weeks-long celebration. You know, the beaches are thronged. There’s block parties on the street where everybody is dancing, and there’s a lot of people kissing strangers. Everybody is sort of a sweaty mess. There’s a lot of heavy drinking. And just about the time when people are starting to sort of nurse their post-Carnival hangover in late February, the first case is diagnosed in São Paolo, in Brazil’s largest city. And the first case involves a man who had traveled home from Italy. And I don’t think there were panic alarms that went off initially, but that quickly changed in early March. And it changed as a result of an extraordinary trip. The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, traveled with a large entourage to Florida, where he dined in Mar-a-Lago with President Trump.  archived recording (donald trump) He’s doing a fantastic job, great job. Brazil loves him, and the U.S.A. loves him.  michael barbaro  And as they come back from that trip, a number of people who have been part of that delegation start testing positive.  archived recording 1 The latest sign of the spread of the virus is it is reaching and threatening the most powerful offices in the world. archived recording 2 There are new virus concerns stemming from the meeting President Trump had with a delegation from Brazil in Florida. archived recording 3 This video shows Mr. Trump last weekend at Mar-a-Lago next to a man who has since tested positive for the virus. He is the press secretary for Brazil’s president. archived recording 4 We now know that a dozen Brazilians who were there have tested positive for the virus.  ernesto londoño  So Brazil really becomes sort of consumed because their leadership, the people running the country all of a sudden started falling sick. But even as the virus is clearly within the halls of power, the president is not expressing any alarm. Quite the contrary.  archived recording (jair bolsonaro) [IN PORTUGUESE] archived recording (translator) My obligation as head of state is to anticipate problems, to bring the truth to the Brazilian people. But this truth should not incite panic.  ernesto londoño  President Bolsonaro starts calling this virus something that the media was obsessed with in order to bring down his popularity numbers.  archived recording (jair bolsonaro) [IN PORTUGUESE]  ernesto londoño  He called it a fantasy. He said, this is a measly cold. He said, even if I were to get this virus, because I have an athlete’s background, I would shake it off within days.  michael barbaro  Huh.  archived recording (jair bolsonaro) [IN PORTUGUESE]  ernesto londoño  (PARAPHRASING PRESIDENT JAIR BOLSONARO) This is nothing to worry about, and this is not something that justifies shutting the country down for. And on the other hand, you had mayors and governors saying, actually, we have to listen to the scientists. We have to shut down businesses. We have to keep people home. We have to act now if we want to save lives. But it was really hard to enforce when you had the president trying to persuade Brazilians that this was all a mistake and that they shouldn’t be listening to these local leaders. So what this did was it really polarized Brazilian society. You had people who are very loyal to the president, essentially taking his side and sort of feeling empowered not to be quarantined, not to have to stay at home, not to have to give up their jobs. But on the other hand, you had a lot of people who despise the president and who became very worried. So by late March, something really striking started happening across the country in big cities.  archived recording [PROTESTORS BANGING ON POTS]  ernesto londoño  People protesting by banging pots from their windows. It was the only way that people who were actually taking this virus seriously and were worried about it could make their voices viewed. So every night like clockwork at about 8:30 p.m., I would hear from my window people banging pots and screaming, out with Bolsonaro, out with Bolsonaro! And it was a really striking sounded. It almost sounded primal. It was like these voices piercing through the night, and voices that kind of conveyed a degree of despair and anguish.  archived recording [PROTESTORS BANGING ON POTS]  ernesto londoño  So that’s when we start seeing that much of the country was not feeling safe in Bolsonaro’s hands at a moment of crisis.  michael barbaro  And did this approach from the president, from Bolsonaro, did it surprise you?  ernesto londoño  Well, I think we’ve learned not to be terribly surprised by anything that Bolsonaro does. As you might remember, he’s a far-right populist leader who has been very divisive ever since he was elected in 2018. But it was very surprising that Brazil would be caught flat-footed in a health care crisis of this magnitude. And the reason for that is that the country has, in the past, risen to the challenge of very serious health care challenges, and deployed its pretty robust and very sophisticated public health care service to go after really complicated problems with very innovative solutions. I’ll give you a couple of examples. Back in the ‘90s when the first H.I.V. medicines were on the market and were allowing people to live healthy and productive lives, these drugs were very expensive for people in poor countries. And Brazil took a pretty maverick approach to this. Brazil essentially challenged to the drug companies and said, we think that this is a matter of human rights, and people should have access to lifesaving medicine without having to fill your pockets for years on end. So that argument was so powerful. It led to drug manufacturers making concessions, and that led to these drugs becoming cheaper and more widely available. And Brazil scored a pretty significant victory on the world stage by taking what was a pretty bold stance at the time. More recently, Brazil had to contend with the Zika crisis, which led to babies being born with deformities that were very, very difficult to manage. And once again, it threw everything it had in the way of scientific expertise. And one of the most interesting solutions that Brazil came up with was genetically modified mosquitoes. And the plan was that by creating a genetically altered breed of mosquitoes, they would be preventing the dangerous types of mosquitoes from reproducing, and in doing so, sort of gradually stamp out Zika from areas where people were catching it. So in recent decades, Brazil has been regarded as a really top-tier player when it came to standing up to really complicated health care challenges and to rising to the challenge, even for a country that has enormous problems. You know, lots of people live in poverty. Lots of people don’t have access to clean water. But when it came to saving lives, Brazil has a proven track record of acting in a bold and decisive way. But this year, we’ve seen something very different.  michael barbaro  We’ll be right back. So Ernesto, what explains why Brazil’s leader would take this essentially denialist approach to the pandemic, especially in light of Brazil’s very long history of so aggressively confronting public health crises?  ernesto londoño  Bolsonaro was elected as a typical populist, who took the reins of a country that had been reeling from a really brutal economic recession and was only starting to sort of sputter back to life on his watch. So I think for him and his followers, the idea of an economic unraveling on his watch, considering how polarizing a figure he is, was just ruinous. I think he felt that if businesses shut down and jobs disappeared in very significant numbers, his base of support would crumble. And I think another element that might inform Bolsonaro’s behavior is he’s somebody who has always looked up to President Trump for cues on how he should respond to things.  michael barbaro  Interesting.  ernesto londoño  And President Trump was also taking the approach that this virus was not that big a deal, that this was going to disappear by itself. So you know, there’s a striking similarity in how these two embattled leaders are selling this crisis to their bases and to the broader audience that listens to them.  michael barbaro  Right. And in both cases, and it sounds like especially for Bolsonaro, a strong economy is the basis for his staying in office, for being a leader. And a strong economy and a very strong reaction to this pandemic are almost, by definition, incompatible. So in his mind, the greatest threat to his power is an economy that starts to sputter and stop, not a virus that may infect and start to kill the people of Brazil?  ernesto londoño  That’s right, but there’s another element at play here. President Bolsonaro has been consumed by political scandals, pretty much from the beginning of his administration. And in recent months, he’s begun to face some legislative and criminal investigations that have called into question his ability to serve out his term. One of these involves an investigation into a money laundering scheme that one of his sons is a target for. And the president is also now being investigated by the Supreme Court over his efforts to switch a police chief, in what his former justice minister thought was an abuse of power and an effort to shield his family members and allies from corruption investigations. So as the virus really starts taking hold of the country, you’re left with a president who is also in a really politically precarious situation, and who is clinging onto his hopes for a strong economy — an economy that won’t go off the rails — because he sees that as the key to his political survival.  michael barbaro  So given all that, Ernesto, how does Bolsonaro’s approach here play out inside Brazil’s public health system? What does it look like?  ernesto londoño  Well, you have this extraordinary split-screen reality. On the one hand, you have the health minister going on television every night during press conferences —  archived recording (luiz mandetta) (IN PORTUGUESE) There is nothing that will influence this response more than how the Brazilian society will behave in the next month or in a few days.  ernesto londoño  — preaching the merits of social distancing, saying quarantines are the only tried-and-tested tool we can throw at this virus right now, people who can stay at home should stay at home, business shutdowns make perfect sense.  archived recording (luiz mandetta) (IN PORTUGUESE) We need to have focus, discipline and science.  ernesto londoño  So you essentially had a health minister who was adhering to the conventional wisdom and the scientific consensus on what countries should be doing.  archived recording (luiz mandetta) (IN PORTUGUESE) So that we can get out of this situation together.  ernesto londoño  On the other hand, you had the president leaving the palace and joining pro-government demonstrations.  archived recording [CHEERING]  ernesto londoño  You had him shaking hands. He certainly wasn’t wearing a mask at that point. And the only thing he’s really expressing interest in as sort of a cure for the virus is the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which he goes as far as ordering the armed forces to mass produce, even though there’s really no scientific consensus that this is a good idea. And there’s some signals that it could actually be dangerous for coronavirus patients. So it became this unsustainable rift where people were asking the health minister, how on earth should we expect Brazilians to listen to what you’re asking them to do when they’re seeing their president take the exact opposite approach? And it reaches a breaking point in mid-April. The health minister, in the midst of a rising epidemic that is starting to spiral out of control, gets fired.  michael barbaro  Huh.  archived recording (luiz mandetta) [IN PORTUGUESE]  ernesto londoño  You know, and on his way out, he delivered a pretty blistering indictment of the president’s handling of this. And he essentially said, I stayed in as long as I could to try to keep Brazil on a responsible path, to try to work within the margins of my authorities, but I can no longer serve under this president because we are too far apart when it comes to our vision and our values on this.  archived recording (luiz mandetta) Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the ministry of health.  ernesto londoño  So with the first health minister getting tossed out, the president appoints a new minister who’s a physician, who had very little name recognition and had never sort of run a large bureaucracy. He often looks like he has a deer-in-the-headlights look. Brazilians started making fun of him in memes online. It just never felt like he was getting any traction or laying out a vision. And just short of completing a month on the job, he convenes a press conference and says —  archived recording (nelson teich) (IN PORTUGUESE) Life is made of choices, and today I chose to leave. So you tell me if I didn’t do my best during this phase, during this period.  ernesto londoño  (PARAPHRASING NELSON TEICH) This is as far as I can go.  archived recording (nelson teich) (IN PORTUGUESE) Its not easy to be heading a secretariat like this in such a difficult period.  ernesto londoño  Doesn’t really give a clear explanation for why he’s leaving, but it’s pretty clear that he, too, just couldn’t live with being the face of this response that was being led by the president.  archived recording (nelson teich) It was an honor for me to have been part of this. Thank you.  michael barbaro  So this is definitively not going well. You’re churning through two health ministers in the middle of a deadly pandemic.  ernesto londoño  Yeah, and the numbers are just spiraling.  archived recording 1 Brazil now has the most cases of coronavirus in South America with more than 5,800 confirmed Covid-19 cases and growing. archived recording 2 A new study out over the last couple of days showing that Brazil might have eight times more cases that have so far been recorded. archived recording 3 Brazil has officially reported about 4,500 deaths. The true number are believed to be much higher, due to the lack of testing. archived recording 4 Topping 90,000 confirmed cases and with more than 6,000 deaths. archived recording 5 100,000 with more than 7,000 deaths. archived recording 6 Brazil now has more confirmed cases of coronavirus deaths than China.  ernesto londoño  You know, at this point —  archived recording Well, as the number of coronavirus cases goes up in Brazil, so does the threat to communities in the Amazon region.  ernesto londoño  — you start seeing real strain in some states.  archived recording Already, the biggest city, Manaus, has seen its health system collapse.  ernesto londoño  Up in the Amazon, for example, grave diggers started digging mass graves because people were dying so quickly that officials were completely overwhelmed at hospitals and funeral homes.  archived recording In Rio de Janeiro, hundreds of men, women, and children stood on a line to get food and water.  ernesto londoño  So —  archived recording Health systems across the country are struggling.  ernesto londoño  — you know, across the country in some cities, panic really starts setting in.  archived recording But experts don’t expect Brazil to reach the peak for a few weeks yet.  ernesto londoño  And at the national level, the health ministry is without a minister. And instead of appointing another expert in the field, the president leaves the ministry in the hands of an active duty army general who was an expert in logistics but had no real track record when it came to medicine. And one of the first things the ministry does when it is essentially run by this army general is endorse this anti-malaria pill, hydroxychloroquine, and say that health care professionals in the country should give it to all coronavirus patients who want it at any stage of contagion.  michael barbaro  So on his third try, he finally found a health minister willing to take that position.  ernesto londoño  Absolutely. And he had a general on the job, and the general had to take orders from the president.  michael barbaro  And has Bolsonaro backtracked at all as these infection numbers have surged, as the death toll has risen? Or has he stayed with this same approach as he started with?  ernesto londoño  There have been times when he has acknowledged that this is a very significant problem and this is a crisis, but he has been very consistent in saying that it is crucial to save the economy and to put economic recovery ahead of fighting the virus. At one point, when there had been sort of a milestone in the death toll, somebody asked him outside the palace what he thought, and he said, so what? What do you want me to do? My name might be Messiah, which was a reference to his middle name, but I’m not here to perform miracles. Earlier this month, Bolsonaro said, I regret the loss of life. But at the end of the day, this is everybody’s destiny.  michael barbaro  Everybody eventually dies is what he’s saying.  ernesto londoño  Yes. So he hasn’t really backtracked. And I think in the long run, what some political experts think is that he is betting on the possibility that when the real economic pain is felt — six months, a year down the road, when it becomes clear just how big of a beating Brazilians took — that Brazilians may take out their wrath on the governors and the mayors who imposed these quarantines, and that the president may be able to sort of carve out a role for himself as the person who consistently wanted to save jobs, wanted to keep the economy on track. And I think it’s too early to tell. As a political strategy, that may pay dividends down the road.  michael barbaro  Ernesto, I’m curious if you think that given Brazil’s history of beating back public health crises, that under different leadership — not a president like Bolsonaro who is skeptical of the science and who explicitly puts economics over public health — that Brazil would be in a very different place right now?  ernesto londoño  Well, I think it bears watching what other countries in the region have done. And there’s cases where governments had very decisive and well-thought-out responses that are wrestling with very high numbers. So there’s something kind of mystifying about where this virus strikes with wrath, even in the face of a decisive and sophisticated response. I think one common theme we’re seeing that certainly applies to Brazil is countries with very stark inequality have had a harder time reigning the virus in. You have to think about kind of the way Brazilian cities are laid out. You have many Brazilians living in impoverished, teeming communities where people are sort of stacked up together, where they live numerous families to a small dwelling. And this virus has underscored the privilege some Brazilians have in adhering to conventional social distancing norms and the extent to which, for many Brazilians, for millions of them, it’s just not a possibility. But there’s no question that Brazil had the expertise, had a track record of responding to health care challenges in a really decisive way. And it never really mounted a response that was coherent or sophisticated. It’s been mired in this political fight that has prevented it from having a plan that makes sense to people, a plan it can explain to its population. At the end of the day, without a clear national policy, without a political consensus, and without effective enforcement mechanisms for some of these quarantines and lockdowns, there was no reining in the virus. But pretty much everybody I spoke to who has spent years working in health care policy in Brazil said, we were equipped and ready and trained to rise to the challenge. There was so much we could have done in the precious early days of the epidemic to strike back, to prepare and to save lives.  [music]  michael barbaro  Ernesto, thank you very much. We appreciate it.  ernesto londoño  My pleasure, Michael.  michael barbaro  As of Wednesday, the number of infections in Brazil has risen to 1.4 million, and the number of deaths has surpassed 60,000, confirming Brazil’s outbreak as the second worst in the world, after the United States. We’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today.  archived recording (bill de blasio) So I want to make very clear, we cannot go ahead at this point in time with indoor dining in New York City. Look, even a week ago, honestly, I was hopeful we could. But the news we have gotten from around the country gets worse and worse all the time.  michael barbaro  As U.S. infections continue to break records, New York City delayed a plan to resume indoor dining, Miami Beach reinstated a curfew to keep residents from congregating at night, and California shut down bars and indoor dining in 19 counties. During a news conference on Wednesday, California’s governor Gavin Newsom said that he knew the decision would be disappointing.  archived recording (gavin newsom) And I deeply respect people’s liberty, their desire to go back to the way things once were. But I cannot impress upon you more, our actions have an impact on other people.  michael barbaro  As of Wednesday night, the U.S. death toll from the virus neared 128,000.  archived recording [PROTESTORS IN HONG KONG]  michael barbaro
Bill Nemitz: Collins stumbles over another promise made – and broken|https://www.pressherald.com/2020/07/01/bill-nemitz-collins-stumbles-over-another-promise-made-and-broken/|Susan Collins has a precedent problem.  Take a look at a transcript of the speech Maine’s senior senator gave to her colleagues in October of 2018, in which she announced her support for then-Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s elevation to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Eighteen times during the 43-minute address, Collins used the word “precedent.”  As in: “To my knowledge, Judge Kavanaugh is the first Supreme Court nominee to express the view that precedent is not merely a practice and tradition but rooted in Article III of our Constitution itself.”  And: “As the judge asserted to me, a long-established precedent is not something to be trimmed, narrowed, discarded, or overlooked.”  And: “When I asked him whether it would be sufficient to overturn a long-established precedent if five current justices believed it was wrongly decided, he emphatically said no.”  Music to her ears back then, no doubt. Based largely on those assurances from Kavanaugh, Collins cast a critical swing vote to put him on the nation’s highest bench and thus tilt the court decidedly to the right.  But now, with her bid for election to a fifth term hanging by a thread, Collins once again has some explaining to do.  Collins’ focus back in 2018 was on widespread fear that Kavanaugh, upon joining the court, would eventually vote to overturn the landmark abortion case Roe v. Wade. Short of that, his critics predicted, he would join with the court’s other conservative justices in chipping away, case by case, at a woman’s right to control her own body.  Related Read more columns by Bill Nemitz  The critics were right.  On Monday, Kavanaugh and a conservative minority on the court lined up behind a Louisiana law that would have severely limited a woman’s right to an abortion in that state.  The good news is that the conservatives lost, 5-4 – the four liberal justices, along with Chief Justice John Roberts, tossed the Louisiana law, just as the court did four years ago with a virtually identical statute in Texas.  But here’s the problematic part for Collins: Roberts, who actually voted to uphold the Texas law in 2016 (now-retired Justice Anthony Kennedy sided with the liberals against that one), reversed his position this time for one simple reason.  “The result in this case is controlled by our decision four years ago invalidating a nearly identical Texas law,” Roberts wrote in an opinion separate from the rest of the majority. In other words, while he disagreed with Monday’s actual ruling, he nonetheless respected the precedent established by the court four years ago.  And what about Kavanaugh, the onetime proponent of all things precedential? Did he back up all those lofty promises he made to Collins and follow Roberts’ lead?  Not a chance.  In his two-page dissent this week, Kavanaugh made no mention whatsoever of stare decisis – the Latin term for precedent, which means “to stand by that which is decided.” Instead, he voted to uphold the Louisiana law until it could undergo “additional fact-finding.”  So, here we are again, asking the same old questions: Was Collins hoodwinked? Or did she buckle under intense pressure from her Republican leaders and vote to confirm Kavanaugh, hoping all the while that when his promises to her evaporated, somehow none of us would notice?  In a short, prepared statement Monday, Collins once again demonstrated her adeptness at the political version of Twister – that 1960s game in which contestants contorted themselves trying to simultaneously touch multiple circles on a large, color-coded plastic mat.  First, she reached for her support for women’s choice, saying Monday’s court ruling correctly “recognizes the burden that the Louisiana statute could impose.”  Next, she stretched to swat away those “who suggest that this opinion is an indication of how certain justices would vote on the question of whether abortion will remain legal.” Such speculation, Collins said, “is reading too much into this specific decision.”  Finally, bending over backwards to address her support for Kavanaugh, she concluded that “he gave no indication in his dissenting opinion that he supports overturning Roe.”  Of course he didn’t. Nor did Roberts, who many think simply chose to defuse this political bombshell in the home stretch to a presidential election (see: former FBI Director James Comey, circa 2016) and wait for another of the 16 abortion cases now in the appellate pipeline to deep-six Roe once and for all.  What Collins completely dodged in her statement, however, was Kavanaugh’s glaring disregard, at this moment, for precedent. The legal principle that was supposedly so important to him – and to her – two years ago is apparently now an afterthought, a pledge he never had any intention of keeping.  At the same time, Collins sidesteps the obvious: While Kavanaugh said what he needed to say in 2018 about respecting Roe as precedent, he has no compunction whatsoever about dismantling it piece by piece. Sure, it’s an almost-half-century-old legal edifice, but that’s not going to stop the court’s most junior justice from throwing rocks through its windows.  The reality here is that Collins, either through naivete or political calculation, made a bet back in 2018 that Kavanaugh’s professed allegiance to stare decisis would not come back to haunt her. And now that it has, with her approval rating already tanking and Election Day just four months away, she can only insist nothing has changed, that she’s doing just fine on that Twister mat even as it gets pulled right out from under her.  There is ample, ahem, precedent for this phenomenon. In fact, it goes all the way back to a 1996 television debate, when an audience member asked Collins and her two Republican primary opponents how they felt about federal term limits.  “I do support term limits and I have pledged that if I’m elected, I will only serve two terms,” replied Collins, who, once again, is now seeking her fifth term. “Twelve years is long enough to be in public service, make a contribution and then come home and let someone else take your place.”  To quote another Latin phrase, Senator, “Potius sero quam nunquam.”  Better late than never.  Send questions/comments to the editors.  « Previous  Next »  filed under:
Roberts drifts away from conservative bloc, angering Republicans and exciting the left|https://www.foxnews.com/politics/roberts-drifts-away-from-conservative-bloc-angering-republicans-and-exciting-the-left|Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts’ role as the court’s new swing vote has become abundantly apparent in recent weeks, as he has been the deciding justice in several high-profile 5-4 decisions in which he sided with the court’s liberal bloc -- providing hope for Democrats and angering Republicans.  The jurist kept court watchers on their toes yet again this week, siding with the conservatives in a tight decision that delivered a win for the school choice movement on Tuesday.  But in Monday’s decision in June Medical Services v. Russo, Roberts sided with the liberal members to rule against a Louisiana law restricting who can perform abortions, upholding precedent from a similar case in 2016 in which he was on the other side. This followed his vote in rejecting the Trump administration’s attempt to rescind DACA and his vote in a 6-3 decision that prohibited employment discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.  SUPREME COURT RULES AGAINST TRUMP ADMINISTRATION BID TO END DACA PROGRAM  "The Supreme Court’s entering Buffalo Springfield territory: 'There’s something happening here,'" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said after Monday’s ruling.  Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, observed a similar trend after the DACA decision but was far less enthusiastic about it.  “Over recent years, more and more, Chief Justice Roberts has been playing games with the court to achieve the policy outcomes he desires,” Cruz said on the Senate floor, before citing past instances of what he called "sleight of hands" by Roberts, adding: "This is becoming a pattern."  Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., celebrated Monday’s ruling while pointing out that it went against Republican political preferences.  “This is a major victory for reproductive rights. The Supreme Court has confirmed it over and over again: the decision to get an abortion is a constitutional right, whether extremist Republican legislators like it or not,” Sanders tweeted.  Well-known liberal law professor Laurence Tribe, who taught Roberts at Harvard, expressed pride for his former student after Monday’s decision.  “Adding the Louisiana abortion decision to the DACA decision and the LGBTQ decision makes me especially proud of my former constitutional law student, Chief Justice John Roberts,” Tribe tweeted.  Roberts' history of separating himself from the court’s conservative contingent in key cases goes back years. In 2012, by siding with the liberal wing and reinterpreting an individual mandate as a tax, he allowed ObamaCare to be found constitutional. Additionally last year he joined with liberals again in shutting down the Trump administration’s efforts to add a citizenship question to the census.  TRUMP DECRIES SUPREME COURT DECISIONS AS 'SHOTGUN BLASTS INTO THE FACE' OF CONSERVATIVES  The recent decisions, however, appear to have particularly struck a chord. President Trump called them “shotgun blasts into the face of people that are proud to call themselves Republicans or Conservatives.” Even before Monday’s abortion case, Trump indicated that he was not confident in the current makeup of the court, despite the majority of justices being Republican appointees.  “The recent Supreme Court decisions, not only on DACA, Sanctuary Cities, Census, and others, tell you only one thing, we need NEW JUSTICES of the Supreme Court,” Trump tweeted earlier this month.  Yet Roberts is far from the first justice appointed by a Republican president to drift from the conservative bloc, and a number of Republican selections have famously moved even further left.  Justices Anthony Kennedy and Sandra Day O’Connor, both recent examples of swing vote justices, were appointed by President Ronald Reagan. Justice David Souter, who was chosen by President George H.W. Bush, often sided with the court’s liberal contingent.  In 1992’s landmark Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the Supreme Court upheld the right to an abortion in a 5-4 decision. All five majority votes – O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, John Paul Stevens, and Harry Blackmun -- were appointed by Republicans. The opinion in Roe v. Wade, which first established abortion as a right, was written by Blackmun, who was tapped for the Supreme Court by President Richard Nixon. The late former Chief Justice Earl Warren, nominated by Dwight Eisenhower, also faced criticism from conservatives for the court's decisions.  Several conservatives have expressed fear that Roberts is not even a swing vote, and that he has gone full liberal.  “John Roberts is an empty black robe who wants to be loved by liberals who believe in legislating from the bench,” said former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee. “Mr. Chief Justice, if you want to be a legislator, resign and run for Congress. But at any rate, just resign!”  “John Roberts didn’t ‘side with’ the liberal wing of the Supreme Court, HE IS A LIBERAL,” tweeted Fox News contributor Dan Bongino.  Despite the attention to Roberts’ recent left-leaning votes, however, the chief justice has on many occasions remained with conservatives in 5-4 decisions. According to statistics compiled by SCOTUSBlog, the court’s October 2018 term featured 17 cases that resulted in 5-4 decisions where all four liberal justices voted together. Of these, Roberts turned out to be a deciding vote in 10 of them, sticking with his fellow conservatives seven times and voting with liberal justices three times.  On Tuesday, Roberts sided with conservatives, resulting in the 5-4 decision in the school choice case that said a clause in Montana's state constitution forbidding aid to schools controlled by a "church, sect, or denomination" violated the U.S. Constitution's Free Exercise Clause because it prevented religious schools from participating in an aid program that would have provided tax credits for scholarships at private schools.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  The Supreme Court still has nearly a dozen cases left to decide this term, with several having significant political implications. Their issues include whether states can force members of the Electoral College to vote in accordance with the state's popular vote, and whether President Trump's tax returns can be released to House committees or Manhattan prosecutors.  Fox News' Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
